# Página 249  
Babbitt and Freddie Moore, instead of the typically lar ger grou p in which
each individual contributed a scene or gag.
Of the four , M oore, the youngest, would most distinguish himself.
Moore, w ho had  joined the stud io in August 1930 just before his nineteenth
birthday , was short, frumpy , and bulbous-nosed—in fact, he looked like a
cartoon character himself. But his appearance notwithstanding, he was a
graceful man and a natural athlete who picked up polo as soon as he
grabbed a mallet, and he was just as much a natural when it came to
drawing. “Animation came too easily to him,” said Les Clark, whom Moore
originally assiste d. “He didn’ t h ave to exert any real ef fort.” Moore’ s easy
facility with the pencil made him  especially adept at the new looser style at
Disney introduced by Fer guson,  and one eminent animation historian gave
him the lar gest share of credit in displacing the old “rubber hose” animation
at the studio with the more sophisticated “squash and stretch.”
Moore’ s real forte, however , wasn’ t realism. It was charm. He had a
knack fo r creating appealing characters who were soft, round, and cherubic
and who seemed to exude the  personality W alt so desperately wanted.
While Fer guson  drew the wolf  in Thr ee Little Pigs,  Lundy most of the
dance steps, and Babbitt the two action sequences, it was Moore’ s design
and anim ation of the pigs that provided the film’ s core and that w ould prove
so s triking, indelible, and for the studio, iconic. Moore’ s p igs were a
benchmark of personality animation just as Fer guson’ s Pluto had been a
benchmark of psychology . Animator Ollie Johnston said of Moore that
“[u]nder his influence the style of Disney drawing changed markedly for
the better .” Another animator , Marc Davis, went further . “The drawing that
people t hink of when they think of Disney ,” he observed, “was inspired by
Fred Mo ore,” w hich is to say that his style, as evidenced in Pigs,  quickly
became the studio style. After Pigs  Moore became such a dominant
influence at the studio that eve n W alt would drop by Moore’ s animation
table just to watch him.
Y et for all the obvious appeal of Moore’ s pigs, another element
contributed jus t as mightily to the cartoon’ s success. During one
storyboarding se ssion W alt had perused the continuity and suggested that a