# Página 426  
operate within the kind of loose arrangement that had prevail ed on Snow
White,  wh ere animators were often sh uttled where they were needed, the
directors of Pinocchio  w ere working with the animators in small units on
single ch aracters and even doing their own sweatboxing so tha t there was
never a need to call in, say , Fre d Moore to explain the charac ters as W alt
had had to do on Snow White.  W alt was so satisfied with the way the
directors and animators had internalized the characters that he thought
every fe ature should be or ganized this way from now on: a di rector and a
chief an imator r esponsible for each character working with his own crew of
checkers, in-betweeners, and cleanup men.
Y et W alt knew the system sounded better and more ef ficient than it really
was. He admitted that because s ome animators could only draw Pinocchio
and othe rs only the cricket, ce rtain scenes didn’ t “jell so well.” W orse,
because directors and animators were working exclusively on  their own
sequences without much coordi nation among them, they were blindered to
the rest of the  film, especially since W alt, who had provided this
coordination on Snow White,  was  pre occupied at the time with The Concert
Featur e.  “The whole dam n thing was a mixed-up operation,” animator M ilt
Kahl lat er said. “They had multiple directors…. Either four u nits or five
directorial units. And then each guy was inclined to…I don’ t know , his
sequence becam e the most impo rtant in the picture…. If you were left with
all t he sequences [at] the leng th the directors wanted them, the picture
would h ave run six hours.” Art director Ken O’Connor agreed that the film
was som ething o f a muddle: “Y ou had people trying to outdo each other….
I a lways  found it remarkable tha t the features hung together as well as they
did.”
W ith Pinocchio ’ s release tar geted for Christmas 1939, the studio found
itself on ce again racing toward completion. “W e worked every night all
through the preceding months, and we were all just absolutely exhausted,”
remembered painter Jane Patterson. Though the release was rescheduled to
February , the staf f still had to work on Christmas Eve. But t hat night at
about ni ne-thirty the doors of th e ink and paint department op ened and in
came W alt, a porkpie hat on his head, silently pushing a laundry cart. In the
cart wer e Christmas presents for the girls—compacts and cigarette cases,