# Página 85  
For all their obv iousness and crudeness, the Laugh-O-grams, p laying as
they did  at Kansas City’ s lar gest and most opulent theater , got n oticed, and
though W alt did not make any profit on them, he gained so mething he
seemed to relish more than money . He got attention. “I got to be a little
celebrity in the thing,” he said. As in the days when he became  known for
his drawings adorning Bert Hudson’ s barbershop, old Benton classmates
now app roached him as the man  who drew the Laugh-O-grams. Even at the
Film Ad Co., A. V . Cauger would now introduce him to cl ients as the
Laugh-O-gram artist and would  borrow W alt’ s reel to show them what the
Film Ad  Co. could do. Cauger even gave him a raise to sixty dollars a
week.
Beyond recognit ion, he got encouragement to do more. Later th at spring,
despite h is infatu ation with animation, he and Harman began ex perimenting
with live  action,  no doubt because it was easier and cheaper to produce than
animation. Thei r ef forts were m ostly juvenilia and nonsense— a scene of
W alt ent ering a door on which “ Cartoonist W anted” is posted, followed by a
group of  other young men who then run out when a gentleman emer ges and
tosses th e sign away; a woman and her little girl playing pat ty-cake and
then the woman and girl walking dolls in a buggy; W alt’ s niece Dorothy
breaking a milk bottle, which W alt then ran backward so that the bottle
seemed to reassemble; more footage of W alt and a group of friends
mugging for the camera in Kan sas City’ s Swope Park; an image of a girl
unrolling her stocking and dipp ing her foot into water . In many of these
films W alt starr ed, usually dressed in a costume; and in many the actors
appeared and then instantly di sappeared, as W alt played with the trick
ef fects o f the camera. Harman a nd Disney even had a name for their little
enterprise: Kay Cee Studios.
Though the idea of his own s tudio was wishful thinking, it was not
entirely frivolou s, any more tha n the idea of his own commercial art studio
had bee n. W ith the popularity of the Laugh-O-grams, which w ere only a
minute or two in duration, he began to think of animating longer cartoons of
six or seven minutes. At first he hoped to interest Cauger in the project,
intending to make the cartoons under the auspices of the Film Ad Co., but
Cauger , still uncomfortable with cel animation and making considerable