# Página 424  
considered maki ng the whole se quence comic. “It will be safer and we will
have more fun making it, and I  think we will make something good,” he
told his story de partment in an abrupt about-face, and then beg an imitating
how dinosaurs walked, hobblin g around the room with bent  knees and
sticking out his rump. W ithin a week, though, W alt had regained his
bearings and was back uninhibitedly free-associating to the music:
“Something like that last WHAHUMMPH I feel is a volcano— yet it’ s on
land. I get that UGHHH W AHUMMPH! on land, but we can look out on
the w ater before this and see water spouts.” At the end, he said , “there’ s a
sort of stop…. pulsating like an old steam engine…. Chuh! CHUH!…
CHSSSSSH.” He got himself so worked up as he listened that he blurted,
“Stravinsky will say: ‘Jesus, I didn’ t know I wrote that music.’”
By this time W alt’ s mother had died and Stokowski had left the  studio to
fulfill ot her obli gations, though he told W alt that he could always be there
within a few ho urs should W alt need him, and the film was in a temporary
limbo. When Stokowski returned in January 1939, W alt was ready . T ogether
over the  next two months th ey reviewed the scores, reexamined the
continuities, looked at Leica reels, and or ganized the sequences so that there
would b e a rhythm to the film.  They even decided to remove  “Cydalise”
and rep lace it with a segmen t from Beethoven’ s Sixth Symphony , the
“Pastorale,” for the faun and centaur section. “If you had selected any other
Beethoven Symphony ,” Deems T aylor wrote Stuart Buchanan, who was in
char ge of the m usical rights at the studio, “I would say nix; too  dangerous.
Y ou can ’ t monkey with the M aster .” But the “Pastorale,” he felt, was
lighthearted enough for one to take some liberties with it, besides which,
“Beethoven was a good deal of a pagan himself, and would have liked
nothing better than to meet up with a gang of fauns and centaurettes.”
By Mar ch, Stokowski had departed once again, this time to return to
Philadelphia to record the sound track. W alt joined him a few weeks later
for t he s essions at the Academy of Music, and though the maest ro chafed at
some o f the restrictions—he had to station dif ferent sections of the
orchestra betwee n partitions for better sound reproduction and had to listen
to a “cli ck track” as he conducted to keep the tempo for the a nimation—
Stuart B uchanan wrote W alt that “Mr . Stokowski is a little dif ficult at times,