# Página 292  
what they would be seeing on the screen. He became  Snow White and the
wicked queen and the prince and each of the dwarfs. Anderson said the
performance to ok over three hours. “He was a spellbinde r ,” recalled
animator Joe Grant. When it was over , the group was both en thralled and
enthused. “[W]e were just carried away ,” Anderson said. “W e had no
concept that we were ever going to do anything else or ever want to do
anything else. W e wanted to do what he had just told us!” “That one
performance lasted us three years,” one animator claimed. “Whenever we’d
get stuck, we’d remember how W alt did it on that night.”
But if W alt had inspired his crew with the idea of a new mission, there
were ne vertheless doubts and trepidations. “W e saw it at firs t as W alt’ s
folly ,” said Joe Grant. Even W alt sometimes wondered whether anyone
would w ant to sit through a feat ure-length cartoon, though at the same time
he was telling the story of Snow White,  he and Roy were also discouraging
exhibitors from showing full programs of Disney cartoons for fear , as Roy
wrote one of th em, that they “m ay take the edge of f this feature idea and
give peo ple the impression that a cartoon feature is merely a hod gepodge of
several connected subjects.” There was also the issue of whether audiences,
who, W alt had worried just a few years before, might not even accept a
voice emanating from a drawing would have any emotional investment in
drawings—an in vestment he felt was necessary to sustain a f eature. And
within th e studio  itself there wa s concern whether W alt, who h ad so many
responsibilities, could focus on a single feature for what he said would be
the year  to eighteen months ne eded to complete it, while others debated
whether his managerial style of constantly sparking new  ideas and
constantly changing his mind was compatible with the steadiness and
certainty that a feature required. Despite his enthusiasm, W alt commented
to a reporter in 1934, well after he had committed to Snow White,  that he
had to be certain the studio was up to it; otherwise “we will destroy it.”
Finally , there was a more practical consideration: how would they
finance the film? The Disneys had virtually no money of their own,
reinvesting what ever they did ha ve in the studio. For its part, Un ited Artists,
their dis tributor for the shorts, wasn’ t obligated to finance or distribute a
feature, though, contrary to late r accounts, it was not opposed to a feature