# Página 197  
it, even his self-regard, branded him as W alt’ s alter ego—the fullest
expression of W alt Disney . This was true of the themes of Micke y’ s films as
well as his characteristics. When  Mickey engaged in fantasy on ly to have it
punctured by reality , as so often  happened in his cartoons, he was acting out
the cent ral tension of W alt Dis ney’ s life. And if W alt found his voice in
Mickey , Mickey  Mouse literally found his voice in W alt Disney . The ninth
Mickey , The Karnival Kid,  re leased  in July 1929, was th e first in which
Mickey spoke—his first words were “Hot dog, hot dog”—though
henceforth, W alt told his distributor , the cartoons would regularly include
singing and talking. But W alt was not satisfied with Mickey’ s voice, which
was low , flat, and uninflected (it may have been Carl Stalling’ s), and he
promised to find someone whose voice would better fit Mickey’ s
personality , even postponing the  synchronization of the next Mickey while
he s pent a week  testing candidates. By one account, a woman n amed Helen
Lind temporarily  performed Mickey . But while W alt continued to search, he
demonstrated on e day how he thought Mickey should  sound, assuming a
falsetto. One of the staf f asked him why he didn’ t just do the voice himself,
and W alt agreed, joking, “I knew I’d always be on the payroll, so I did it.”
W alt wa s often embarrassed at performing Mickey , and he later admitted
that there were others who cou ld do it, but he said his was the best voice
because “[t]here is more pathos in it.”
While Mickey served as an exp ression of W alt’ s personal mythology of
trial and triumph, he also provided a self-reflexive commentary on his
creator ’ s own imagination, and this, as much as the cultural re sonances or
the invo cations of childhood or the sexual suggestiveness,  may have
accounted for Mickey’ s deep and abiding popularity . Whatever else he is—
and he is indistinctly many things—Mickey Mouse is in thrall  to his own
abilities of imaginative transformation. Whether he is turning an auto into
an a irplane or a  cow into a xylophone, Mickey , like Chaplin an d like W alt
Disney himself, is always in the process of reimagining reality , and this is
his prim al, vicarious connection  to the audience—the source of his power .
He sees and hears things others don’ t. He makes the world his.
It was no accid ent that Mickey arrived with sound and music because
music became the metaphor for  his inner muse and the sine qua non of his