# Página 563  
A very with Clampett and Jones was a signal moment in animation history .
W orking every night, pushing  one another beyond the far reaches of
acceptable Disn ey animation, beyond what one called the “cute stuf f,” they
created a loose, madcap, smart- alecky style that broke the plan e of realism
and intentionally defied Disney’ s illusion of life. Looney T unes, the rubric
under which many of the W ar ner cartoons were produced, was a fitting
name.
“The W a rner Bros. animators didn’ t have any delusions of grandeur that
they we re doing  something special,” one of them later said. At W arners it
was abo ut having fun—about the staf f making themselves laugh. “W e were
laughing ten, twelve, fourteen hours a day ,” recalled Chuck Jon es. “It never
occurred to us that W arners and W alt were in the same business.” At
Disney , even back in the days when the animators participated in juvenilia
of their own, everything on the animations was carefully planned and
endlessly deliberated upon in pursuit of perfection. At W arner Bros., Jones
said, “directors, animators, and w riters were indeed a laboratory for creative
inconsistency , fo r unanticipated mutations, for happy accidents—a primal
soup to discover the delight of the undiscovered.” “W e did our thing and
nobody seemed to say , ‘Don’ t do this’ or ‘Don’ t do that,’” Friz Freleng
recalled. It would never even ha ve occurred to the W arners crew  to make a
feature like Snow White,  and Jones imagined that Sch lesinger , if asked
whether he had any feature as pirations, likely would have responded, “I
need a feature cartoon like I need two assholes.”
But out of this u npretentiousness and chaos came something wonderful.
The W a rners artists embraced the contrary and the irreverent. If they had
neither the resources nor the artistic talent to make Snow White,  they could
spoof it with Bo b Clampett’ s Coal Bla ck and de Sebben Dwar fs,  and  if they
had neit her the resources nor the  artistic talent to make Fantasia,  they could
puncture its pretensions with Clampett’ s A Corny Concerto,  in whi ch a
bulb-headed dun ce by the name  of Elmer Fudd played the role of Deems
T aylor while a rabbit named Bugs pranced about as a ballerina. Meanwhile
T ex A very torpedoed Disney’ s sentimentality in The Peachy Cobbler ,  and
Frank T a shlin attacked Disney’ s realism with self-reflexive sho rts in which
the char acters kept addressing the audience and acknowledge d that they