# Página 16  
line betw een naïve populism and cloying sentimentality proved to be thin.
Already by the end of W orld W ar II Disney’ s artistic reputation was in
decline, and intellectuals who had been swooning just a few years earlier
over his  innocence and artless artfulness now complained that he had lost
his touc h and become a mass artist rather than a folk artist. By  the end of
his l ife, though his iconic status  as America’ s favorite uncle was probably
more un shakable than ever , his artistic status had plummeted. What had
once be en haile d as an unerrin g sense of the American temp er was now
attacked by critics for having transmogrified into aesthetic demagoguery
and vulgarization. As one disgruntled animator put it, “W alt Dis ney had the
innate bad taste of the American public.”
In t he end he was widely identified with cultural degrada tion—the
“rallying point for the subliterate s of our society ,” as critic Richard Schickel
wrote. Almost no one took him seriously any longer , except for the
undiscriminating hordes who loved his work, and one could almost have
divided the country between those who subscribed to the Disney  vision and
those wh o abhor red it. “A few years ago when you mentioned W alt Disney
at a  respectable party…the sta ndard response was a head-shake and a
groan,” John Gardner wrote in 1973. “Intellectuals spoke of how he
butchered the classics—from Pinocchio  to W innie the Pooh— how his
wildlife pictures  were sadistic a nd coy , how the W orld’ s Fair sculptures of
hippopotamuses, etc., were a national if not international disgrace.” The bill
of in dictment was, indeed, a long one. He had infantilized the culture and
removed the danger from fairy tales in the process of popularizing them for
a m ass market, providing, in no velist Max Apple’ s words, “the illusion of
life with out any  of the mess.” He had promoted treacly values that seemed
anachronistic an d even idiotic in  a complex, modern, often tragic world and
that defined him as a cultural and political troglodyte. He had usurped each
person’ s individual imagination with a homogenized corporate one and
promoted confo rmity , promptin g one critic to declare, “The  borders of
fantasy are closed now .” Like a capitalist Midas, he had commercialized
everything he touched, reducing  it all, in another antagonist’ s view , “to a
sickening blend of cheap formu las packaged to sell…One feels our whole
mass cu lture hea ding up the dark  river to the source—that heart  of darkness
where M r . Disn ey traf fics in pa stel-trinketed evil for gold and ivory .” And