# Página 34  
Marceline: a nascent self-awareness and the first acknowledgment of his
talent. W alt enjo yed art and cla imed to have become interested in drawing
“almost as soon as I could hold a pencil.” But it was not until Aunt
Maggie’ s visits that he receive d encouragement. “She used to make me
think I was really a boy won der!” he said, admitting that she had a
“flattering tongu e in her head.” And Aunt Maggie’ s praise wa s reinforced
by a nother mentor , an elderly n eighbor named Doc Sherwood. By the time
W alt me t him, the doctor had r etired from practicing medicine , so he had
time on his hands, and he and his wife were childless, so he s pent a good
deal of that time with W alt, w ho became a kind of adopte d son. Doc
Sherwood was an imperious man; he wore a Prince Albert coat and drove a
surrey in the summer and a cutter in the winter pulled by a prize stallion
named Rupert. W alt often accompanied him, even into the drugstore, where
the doct or conducted a “gabfest.” Usually on their trips W alt peppered him
with questions, and years later he marveled at the doctor ’ s knowledge and
patience. “Don’ t be afraid to a dmit your ignorance,” Doc Sherwood told
him, a philosophy that W alt, who was always inquisitive, said “lasted me a
lifetime.” But what W alt remembered most about Doc Sherwood—what he
would recount throughout the rest of his life—was the time the doctor asked
him to fetch his crayons and tablet and sketch Rupert. The horse was
skittish that day . Doc Sherwood had to hold the reins, and W alt had
dif ficulty captur ing him. “The result was pretty terrible,” he re called, “but
both the doctor and his wife praised the drawing highly , to my great
delight.” In one version of the s tory Doc Sherwood gave W alt a nickel for
the draw ing, which one neighbor called highly uncharacteristic of the tight-
fisted Sh erwood, and in another version the drawing was framed and hung
in the doctor ’ s house. Whatev er was true, the drawing became, in his
brother Roy’ s hyperbolic words, “the highlight of W alt’ s life.”
Y ears later the D isneys would also frequently recall another episode in
W alt’ s b udding artistic career that they believed testified to his obsession.
One sum mer ’ s day Flora and Eli as had gone to town, leaving W alt and Ruth
at the farm. As Ruth told it, they  began investigating the rain barrels around
the hous e and discovered the barrels’ tar lining. W alt announ ced that the
soft tar could be used as paint, a nd when Ruth out of caution asked whether
it wo uld come o f f, he assured he r that it could. So the two foun d big sticks,