# Página 607  
unfinished train wheels with him wherever he went that fall and winter . “If
he took his family to Palm Springs the box of wheels went along,” Diane
recalled, “and he sat there filing  in the sun.” And sitting there filing, W alt
Disney was as contented as he had been in years.
Just before Christmas 1948, a year after setting up his electric train set in
his of fice, W alt finished the Central Pacific 173, laid a circle of three
hundred feet of track on the soundstage, and fired up the engine. He
arranged anothe r test run shortly before New Y ear ’ s. Eddie Sar geant was at
the throttle and t ook a turn too quickly , falling of f the tender and  pulling the
engine o f f the track, but W alt wa s ecstatic anyway . He had his train. He had
the joy of collaboration again. He had an object on which to  lavish his
af fection. He had the pleasure o f doing work exactly as he wanted and an
opportunity to exercise the control that he had lost.
But if he was ecstatic, others were bewildered. V isiting the stud io during
this period, New Y ork T imes  film critic Bosley Crowther was struck by how
uninterested W a lt seemed in movies and how “wholly , almost weirdly ,
concerned with the building of a miniature railroad engine and a string of
cars in the workshops of the studio. All of his zest for in vention, for
creating fantasie s, seemed to be going into this plaything.” Cro wther said,
“I came  away feeling sad”—sad because W alt Disney , the ma n who had
helped shape the American imagination, was now spending most of his time
playing with trains.
VI
As distr acted as he was and as much as he wanted to avoid them, the
demands of the studio still made claims on his time and attentio n. While he
was playing with his trains, hi s staf f was finishing another live action–
animation comb ination film, So Dear to My Heart,  based on a popular
novel by Sterling North titled Midnight and Jer emiah,  abo ut a boy and his
pet lamb. It starred Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patten, two children whom
W alt had put under contract aft er their appearances in Song of the South.
Like most Disney features, it had been in production a long time; W alt had