# Página 526  
Raymond J. Brown, the editor of Outdoor Life,  had  see n the film in preview
and lauded it to W alt as an “artistic triumph and yo ur greatest
achievement.” But Brown had quibbles too. Certain sequences,  he thought,
might be  of fensive to sportsmen and conservationists, and he suggested that
W alt add a prolo gue stating that the film was a fantasy and not a depiction
of realit y . Wheth er W alt smelled a publicity coup or was actually of fended
himself, he responded the same day that it was too late to add a prologue
and that in any case (obviously speaking disingenuously) he ne ver saw the
film as reflecting negatively on hunters: “[A]ll I ever saw in  it was an
entertainment that would appeal to everyone.”
Brown, taking the bait and inte nsifying his criticism, wrote an editorial
condemning the movie as the “worst insult ever of fered to American
sportsmen and conservationists,” and W alt, at the behest of Howard Kemp,
a sports  columnist for the Rochester Demo crat and Chr onicle,  countered
that his audience would think h e rated them “morons” if he had added a
prologue advising them the film was fantasy when it was clearly not real.
The exchange then triggered a heated debate in newspapers across the
country about whether Bambi  had unfairly tar nished hunters. Roy thought it
inadvisable to get W alt embroiled in this sort of controversy , but publicist
V ern Ca ldwell wrote W alt that the attacks were “getting results.” “The
problem is to ke ep this thing ali ve & at the same time not allow  Disney to
be place d in a compromising position,” Caldwell said, and he recruited
newsmen Bob Considine, Grant land Rice, and Paul Gallico to defend W alt
as “ being falsely accused by e ither a fanatic…or a shrewd exploitation
man.”
Whatever burst  the picture m ight have received from the publicity ,
however , was short-lived. Roy fought to have the Radio City Music Hall,
where Snow White  had played for weeks, keep Bambi  for merely a third
week, bu t he admitted to Geor ge  Morris that “our friends in the Music Hall
seem determined to slide us out at the end of two weeks.” By the end of its
run Mo rris calculated that the studio had lost roughly $200,000 on it.
Desperate as W alt was to see a profit so that he could put another feature
into production, he didn’ t seem surprised. “Living with BAMBI,  as we did,
for f ive years, w e lost all sense of perspective,” he wrote columnist Jimmy