# Página 463  
Blue.  When Stokowski suggested using Dvorak’ s New W orld Symphony  but
cutting i t, W alt countered that he  didn’ t think it should be cut an d that some
of the pieces in Fantasia,  he felt , had been cut too mu ch. “[W]e were
frightened,” he admitted. And when Stokowski brought up Debussy’ s La
Mer ,  s aying it was dif ficult to understand, W alt waved of f the ob jection.
“Y ou sa id the RITE OF SPRING  was dif ficult to understand, remember?”
he told Stokowski. “Maybe we ought to open up on these things instead of
playing down to our medium or our public. That’ s the very thing we like to
have, a challenge.”
While h e contemplated a sequel, W alt also thought of adding individual
sequences to the original film, which had the advantages of being easier to
do a nd o f provi ding ongoing work for the animators when they needed it,
always one of W alt’ s major considerations. It also had the advantage of
allowing W alt, who always hated to surrender a film, the opportunity to
keep “plussing” it—making it better . By the time the film was released,
W alt wa s talking about it as if it were analogous to an opera or ballet
company with its own repertory . “The prospective patron will consult a
program in advance, and determ ine his time of attendance at Fantasia  on
the basis of h is preference in musical numbers and motion picture
characters,” he told the Hollywood Citizen News.  He even  said that the film
might v ary from  theater to theater , from week to week, day to day . At
another point he said he was thinking of remaking the film each year .
Stokowski, who  was still attend ing performances and checkin g the sound
levels at  theaters  more than a month after the premiere, heartily  agreed that
Fantasia  s hould be an or ganic mechanism. “From all the talk I hear in and
around New Y ork about Fantasia  I think  if we put in one new number ,
almost everybody would go to hear the whole picture again,” he wrote W alt.
When W alt returned to the studio after the Fantasia  gala in New Y o rk, he
immediately plunged into developing the new sequences. Whatever hadn’ t
been done right in the original Fantasia  could now be made right in the
additions. He was especially eager to do W agner ’ s “Ride of the V alkyries”
because, he told his story staf f,  it would “stir up musical circles.” He was
also excited about the prospect of animating Ser gei Prokofiev’ s “Peter and
the W olf.” As W alt would later relate it, some years earlier Prokofiev had