# Página 205  
He was always t rying to make s omething that he could have fun with or be
proud of.” Predictably , W alt called Morris to his of fice and insisted that he
could no t take on outside invest ors or ask his employees to take pay cuts or
accelerate produ ction or cut the staf f since “that would mean cutting the
quality o f the pictures and a subsequent falling of f of interest by the public
in the Disney product.” Instead, W alt suggested—unrealistically , Morris felt
—that they take a loan from UA against future profits, while Morris thought
of tr ying to tap Schenck for another personal loan. In the end  W alt, after
exploding at Lessing and Mo rris and sputtering that everyone on the
business side was “pretty rotte n,” said he would attempt to produce five
cartoons every two months rather than four , and the studio muddled through
to the fall.
The constant strain focused W alt, but even without the financial pressures
he w ould have been a man obs essed. He had always lived for his studio.
Bill Cot trell, who often worked at night at the studio on the camera, said
that W al t never left at five or five-thirty when most of the rest  of the staf f
did. He stayed u ntil six or seven and then returned, often with L illian. W alt
himself admitted that he liked to wander the studio at night, visiting the
animation tables or looking at the layout of scenes and  adding or
subtracting drawings. Even when he wasn’ t at the studio, his mind wasn’ t
far from  it. Ben Sharpsteen remembered when W alt, on his way to work,
received a traf fic ticket. Disney was less than amused when he told his staf f
about it that morning, but as he reenacted his exchange with the policeman
—and W alt always acted out hi s stories—he began to see the humor in it,
and, Sharpsteen said, W alt’ s “attitude changed.” The episode quickly
became the basis for T raffic T r oubles.  Another time Sharpsteen ran into
W alt as W alt and Lillian were e ntering a diner and Sharpsteen was exiting.
W alt imm ediately blocked the door , oblivious to other patrons attempting to
enter or  leave, and began tellin g a story he had just concocted for a new
cartoon about a barnyard revu e with an audience of cats. Lillian was
growing impati ent at having to wait, and when W alt r eached his
denouement—the cats jumping onto a privy roof, which then collapses—
she snee red that  she wouldn’ t want to see that cartoon, but W alt didn’ t seem
to hear or care. “For the mom ent, W alt didn’ t realize where he was or
anything; all he knew was that he wanted to tell his story .” “His hobby is