# Página 411  
simultaneously , the Bambi  crew had been shuf fled first across the street and
then to a rented  warren of tiny  rooms in a building on Seward Street in
Hollywood where Harman-Ising had had their of fices. (It was, Marc Davis
remembered, enjoying the incongruity , across the street from a
pornographic film studio.) According to Thomas and Johnston, the staf f was
initially resentfu l at being furloughed; it removed them from the  excitement
of the studio. But in time they r ealized they had an advantage in not being
at H yperion: no one would be bothering them. Marc Davis gu essed W alt
appeared there maybe only three, four , or five times. Instead, pipe-sucking
Perce Pearce conducted the story sessions and guided the production, very
much in the spirit of W alt, acting out scenes and elaborating the continuity
with his story crew . Significantly , W alt did not attend any of these sessions.
For a studio now in desperate need of a new feature, progress was
agonizingly incr emental. Frank Churchill, who had written the music for
Snow White,  h ad been signed to compose th e score for Bambi,  though he
was a melancholic and unrelia ble alcoholic, and storyman Larry Morey
was, as Gunther  Lessing put it, “riding herd on him.” The studio was also
importing animals for the animators to study , while sending other animators
to reserv es to observe deer . At the same time a young Chinese -born artist
named T y W ong, who had been hired as an in-betweener on Pinocchio,  had
on his own ini tiative submitte d drawings for Bambi  that, with W alt’ s
approval, soon became the bas is for the style of the film, just as Albert
Hurter ’ s inspirational drawings had set the style for Snow White.  Suggestive
rather than highly realistic, W ong’ s design provided a visual breakthrough
for the artists.
But even as the y moved forward, they were slogging—trapped  between
the t ight, compressed narrative of Snow White  and  the loose poeticism of
The Concert Featur e,  bet ween the cartoon exaggerations that they had
already mastered and the more painterly abstract ef fects of W ong that were
far more dif ficult to achieve. Still disappointed, W alt at one point reassigned
Ham Luske to work on shorts while the Bambi  scr ipt was revised.
Meanwhile the rest of the staf f, though happy to be out from under W alt’ s
gaze, was growing discontented. Thomas and Johnston said that they were
never confident they would succeed in capturing the story’ s emotional