# Página 407  
the means of a great success and should lead to a new style  of motion
picture presenta tion.” He asked Dickson again to see if he could convince
Stokowski to begin work on the film as soon as possible. The next week
Stokowski wrote W alt, equally excited—“you have no more enthusiastic
admirer in the world than I am”—and saying he would be making a
preliminary recording of the score in a few days.
While Stokowsk i made his recordings in Philadelphia, where he led the
Philadelphia Orc hestra, W alt hurried the story crew through a tr eatment and
began soliciting suggestions from the staf f, though he advised them to
“avoid slapstick  gags.” “I have never been more enthused over anything in
my life,” W alt wrote Stokowski in mid-November , informing him that
“while anxiously awaiting your arrival[,] to get the wheels of production
turning we are preparing a story which we hope will meet with your
approval.” Stokowski arrived in Los Angeles on January 2, 1938 , with great
fanfare—W alt was not above suggesting that Dickson exploit Stokowski’ s
recent divorce and reputed romance with actress Greta Garbo for publicity
—to app rove the  story and recor d the final score. The Hyperion soundstage
was too small for the eight y-five musicians whom Stokowski had
personally selec ted, so W alt ren ted the Selznick studio, and at midnight on
Sunday , January 9, Stokowski conducted Dukas’ s score. (He chose
nighttime, he said, because the musicians had to drink cof fee to stay awake,
which he felt made them more alert.) The conductor was so galvanic that
the entire session—recorded, at Stokowski’ s insistence, on six separate
tracks—lasted o nly three hours. As one observer recalled, when it was over ,
Stokowski stepp ed down from the podium drenched in perspiration. It took
two bath towels to dry him.
But the collabo ration only began there. Stokowski had arrived in Los
Angeles armed with what one associate would later call a “sizable portion
of his repertory ,” and he was apparently lobbying W alt to go beyond
Appr entice.  W ithin weeks of the recording session, no doubt as a result of
discussions that W alt and Stoko wski held through the end of January , W alt
came to a decision: The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  wo uld now be  just one
segment of a feature that would set animation to classical music, just as
Stokowski had allegedly descri bed his vision to W alt at Chasen’ s. Again