# Página 35  
dipped them into the tar , and began drawing designs on the side of the
Disneys’ whitewashed house. “A nd I can remember an awful feeling,” Ruth
would sa y , “when I realized just a little bit later that it wouldn’ t budge—the
tar .” Their parents were not amused. (“He was old enough to know better ,”
Flora sn ipped thirty years later .) The tar still adorned the side o f the house
when the Disneys moved away—the first memorial to W alt Disney’ s art.
The blis s of Marceline was undermined by only one thing: Elias Disney had
absolutely no aptitude for farm ing. He told one neighbor that  he did not
believe in fertilizing his fields because doing so was like “giving whiskey to
a man—he felt better for a litt le while, but then he was worse of f than
before.” The crops suf fered until Elias finally relented. Another neighbor
remembered Eli as ordering his s ons to water the horses in mid-morning and
then que stioning why no one el se seemed to be watering their horses then,
not reali zing that what was requ ired was to water them in the morning, at
noon, and at night. Despite his shortcomings, he persevered and
experimented. One year he planted an acre of popping corn. Another year ,
when the market was depressed,  he had each member of the family go door
to door with a basket selling their apples rather than take them to a
wholesaler . And yet another time he collected apples from his neighbors
and eliminated the middleman  by taking them to the market in Kansas
himself and splitting the procee ds. One fall after the harvest, when times
were ve ry hard, he resorted to c arpentry again and remodeled a neighbor ’ s
house. S till, money was always tight and Elias always frugal. The Disney
children recalled that Flora had to butter the bottom of their b read so that
their father would not see her depleting one of the family’ s sources of
income.
If it was money that battered E lias, it was money too that sundered the
Disney f amily . I n 1907 Herbert and Ray had arranged with Uncle Robert to
grow so me whe at on his land, which they then had neighbors harvest that
fall. When Elias asked his sons what they intended to do with their money ,
and one of them  said he was going to buy himself a pocket w atch, Elias
erupted at the in dulgence. He insisted that he  w ould take the  money and
help pay  of f the farm. “That was the straw that broke the camel’ s  back,” one