# Página 490  
the same time, during daily n egotiations late that June, W alt agreed to
reinstate the workers he had dismissed in May—except Art Bab bitt—while
warning that there were more layof fs to come. This was also rejected
unanimously by  the union board. Despite the impasse W alt s till seemed
oddly jo vial, wr iting a journalist that “we feel very much like the young
couple having their first baby!” and ridiculously telling another reporter that
the studio had actually incr eased  its output during the strike because it had
gotten rid of “deadwood,” “doubtful talent,” and “green hands.”
But W al t never despaired of find ing a way around the union. At one point
Dave Ha nd, Ben Sharpsteen, W ilfred Jackson, and others met—one of them
would say with W alt’ s knowledge—to discuss disbanding the studio
altogether and forming another one headed by Roy and W alt but without
any unio n invol vement. At another point Bill T ytla, who had gone out on
strike bu t nevert heless felt a dee p allegiance to W alt, happened to see W alt
at a loca l diner and approached him, saying he thought the whole thing was
“foolish and unnecessary .” Brightening, W alt suggested that T ytla come
back to the of fice, where they m ight hammer out a solution th e way W alt
might solve a problem on a film. T ytla agreed but wanted first to go home,
shower , and change. By the time T ytla arrived at his house, W alt had
phoned T ytla’ s wife and told her the meeting was of f. T ytla believed
someone had gotten to W alt, presumably Lessing.
At r oughly the same time, after  the union had rejected W alt’ s p roposals,
quite possibly the most notorious figure in Hollywood arrived o n the scene.
IA TSE head W illie Biof f wa s a moon-faced, jowly little man with
hexagonal wire-rim glasses and an ever -present cigarette dangling from his
lips. It was Biof f whom Babbitt  had so feared two years earlier that he had
met with Lessing about forming the federation. Since that tim e Biof f had
been ind icted on  federal racketeering char ges, but that seemed to have had
little ef f ect on his power . Biof f ’ s IA TSE was the rival of Sor rell’ s CSU.
Whether W alt contacted Biof f  to help broker a settlement (Biof f was
famously tight with the studios) or whether Biof f volunteered as a way to
undercut Sorrel l is unclear .* Ho wever it happened, on Ju ne 30 Biof f
reached a quick settlement with Disney , then had one of his lieutenants
approach the strike leaders at th e union’ s hall on the corner of Sunset and