# Página 272  
But it was a long gestation. Mickey had begun life visually and then
found a voice, s o that he was a d esign before he was a character , which had
been part of his problem. His foil began life as a voice and then had to find
a physic al form, which was pa rt of his success. The voice belonged to a
tiny , apple-cheeked twenty-nine-year -old Oklahoma-born milkman named
Clarence Nash. In school in rural Missouri, where his family moved when
he was nine, he found an early talent for making animal noises, which he
later par layed in to an act playing  the mandolin and performing b ird calls on
the Redpath L yceum and Chau tauqua circuit. When he got married, he
promised his eighteen-year -old bride that he would quit show bu siness for a
more se cure pos ition, and the N ashes moved to California, where he got a
job with the Adohr Dairy , visiting schools in a milk wagon pulled by
miniature horses  and making his  animal noises to entertain the children. He
also performed periodically on a local radio program. During one of these
broadcasts late in 1933 W alt, who was listening for voices he could use in
the cartoons, said he heard Nash and subsequently invited him to the studio.
Nash had a dif ferent version. H e said that he visited the studio on his own
initiative, got an interview with  Jaxon, and did a rendition of “ Mary Had a
Little Lamb” in a voice that he modeled after a bleating goat. While Nash
recited, Jaxon secretly switched  on the intercom to W alt’ s of fice, and W alt
burst in, shouting, “That’ s our talking duck!” W alt didn’ t know exactly what
to do with Nash yet but signed him to a retainer anyway .
It w ould be anot her year—durin g which Nash went back to work for the
dairy—before W alt summoned him (Nash once said it was because he had
told W al t that the Iwerks studio wanted to use his voice for a du ck) and cast
him in 1934 as an irascible, sel fish, bottom-heavy , long-beaked, and long-
necked d uck in The W is e Little Hen,  who begs of f helping the hen plant and
harvest her corn by feigning a  bellyache every time she app roaches. It
wasn’ t instant stardom, though the studio did copyright the character shortly
thereafter , dress ing him in a blue sailor suit with a sailor ’ s c ap because,
W alt later said, “Being a duck, he likes water . Sailors and water go
together .” When the studio decided to pair him with Mickey  Mouse in
Orphan’ s Benefit,  the anti-Mickey and the Mickey together , W ard Kimball,
who helped animate the cartoon, called it a “turning point” both for the
studio and for the further development of personality animation. In the