# Página 806  
Though he barely acknowledged the country’ s problems himself in public
(save for periodic grumblings about Hollywood’ s moral decline), and
though he had lo ng since forsworn much interest in politics, even resigning
his mem bership in the Motion P icture Alliance when, without consulting its
members, it attacked the W riters Guild for rejecting a resolution barring
writers who had not signed a loyalty oath, politicians still  sought his
support. Occasi onally he gave it, actively soliciting donations for the
Eisenhower cam paign in 1956 and plastering a bumper sticker for the 1960
Republican pres idential and vice-presidential candidates Richard  Nixon and
Henry Cabot Lodge on the little motorized cart he rode around the studio.
(According to W ard Kimball, W alt tried to strong-arm emp loyees into
contributing to Nixon’ s camp aign until Milt Kahl, himself an ardent
Republican, obj ected.) He was involved in the presidential campaign of
Barry Goldwate r in 1964, meeting Goldwater at the Republican convention
in San Francisco , donating over $16,000 to him, and of fering him the use of
the c ompany planes. In thanking Diane for likewise supporting Goldwater ,
W alt compared it to “taking up the gun against the enemy .”
As enthusiastically as he supported Goldwater , a self-professed
conservative wh o opposed social security insurance, he was even more
fervent about the candidacy of Geor ge Murphy , a former dancer and
musical film star whom W alt had known for years. When Murphy first
contemplated ru nning for the U .S. Senate in 1964, he said he consulted
W alt, who confidently predicted , “T alk to enough people and you’ll win.”
After Murphy declared his cand idacy , W alt not only donated ge nerously , he
loaned the Murphy campaign furniture for its headquarters, chaired a fund-
raising d inner fo r him, took ou t full-page newspaper ads the l ast week of
the cam paign, a nd allowed his name to be used in a mass mailing. Even
Lillian, a registered Democrat, j oined a group called Democrats for Geor ge
Murphy . Still, after Murphy won , W alt wasn’ t especially politicized. “I had
my little fling a t politics last y ear ,” he told a reporter late in 1965. “It’ s
really not very interesting.”
In ef fect, despite his Republican ism, W alt Disney belonged to e veryone.
When the T ournament of Roses was looking for a grand marshal for its
January 1, 1966, parade, the first to be televised overseas, via the T elstar