# Página 77  
Bellefontaine house at the time, would say—he would repair to  the garage
after wo rk each  day , emer ge fo r dinner , then return to his camera stand.
“When he’d come home and long after everybody else was [in] bed,” Roy
remembered, “W alt was out there still, puttering away , working away ,
experimenting, t rying this and th at, drawing, and so on.” “He was just busy
every second,” said Dorothy , though no one in the family paid much
attention to him. “W e didn’ t think it was any big deal.”
But for W alt the nights tinkering out back wer e  a  big d eal, and they
signified a sea change in his ambitions. What his family did not seem to
notice w as that W alt Disney , who for years had been determined to become
a ne wspaper cartoonist, was no w suddenly just as determined to become
something that to most outsiders  was even more impractical, so mething for
which h e had had no real train ing and something for which a job did not
even seem to exist. He wanted to become an animator .
II
He did not have a lot of catc hing up to do. In 1920, when he began
puttering in his garage, animation was scarcely two decades old, and it had
not e volved much in that time, i n part because the idea of moving drawings
was still so novel that it required very little besides movement to entertain
audiences. The earliest animato rs, like the Frenchman Émile C ohl and the
Englishman Stuart Blackton, borrowed from the stage tradition of
“lightning sketchers”—performers who stood at an easel and, while
lecturing, drew very rapidly , con stantly transforming their drawings as they
spoke. T aking a dvantage of the inherent nature of motion pictures to make
continuous action out of a strin g of static images, animation p ioneers did
lightning sketching one better . Their films often self-reflexively showed the
cartoonist’ s hand sketching the image before magically setting it in motion,
calling attention  to the technological gimmick and in doing so turning
animation into a form of trickery . In ef fect, these first anim ations were
about nothing more than the thrill of animation itself.