# Página 113  
the cont ract; $5 0 from Robert I rion, who was married to W alt ’ s aunt; $25
from Roy’ s girlfriend Edna Fra ncis and even $200 from V ir g inia Davis’ s
mother .
Though Roy had helped solicit these funds—all except the money from
Edna, w hich W alt had requested without his knowledge—it had never been
Roy’ s in tention to join the enterprise, and in any case he had no experience
whatsoever in entertainment. “I was just helping him, like you’d help a kid
brother ,” he later said. But Roy could never resist his younger brother . He
claimed that W alt, who was so enthusiastic and innocent-seeming, “would
win you r heart, and you wanted to help him, really ,” and he adm itted that he
was afraid that w ithout his protection, his “fervent protection,” W alt would
have been taken advantage of. T o prevent that, Roy , professing a “love of
W alt,” agreed to become W alt’ s manager and guardian angel in business as
he had been in W alt’ s life. In late November , when W alt moved out of
Uncle Robert’ s house to a room in the Olive Hill Apartments, Roy joined
him there and moved with him again in December when W alt found
another , cheaper  room, for fiftee n dollars a month, at 4409 Kingswell in an
apartment buildi ng almost directly across the street from his un cle’ s house.
The two  even saved money by eating at a cafeteria where they  could split
the meat and vegetable courses.
The room was just two blocks from a cream-colored, one-story brick
storefront at 4651 Kingswell with a lar ge display window . Early that
October , either in anticipation of the W inkler deal or as a work space for the
Pantages reel, W alt had rented a cramped of fice at the rear of the building
behind the Holly-V ermont Realt y Company , which occupied the front. (The
rent was  only ten dollars a month, which was raised to fifteen dollars in
December .) By December , with the contract signed, the brothers were also
renting a lot ne arby on Hollywood A venue for outdoor shooti ng and had
bought a new ca mera, lumber and tools, a curtain to separate them from the
realtors, and a box of cigars as a  thank-you present for Uncle R obert. They
had a name for the studio too: Disney Bros.