# Página 511  
General Accounting Of fice would hold him to the letter of the contract. In
ef fect, t hen, W alt learned two awful but valuable lessons that would
dominate his business conduct throughout the war: first, that government
films operated by a dif ferent sc hedule and under dif ferent standards from
commercial pictures, and second, that the studio was now always
accountable to the governmen t, which would prove an even sterner
taskmaster than the Bank of America.
If W alt had any  relief from the work, the criticism, the disapp ointment,
and the financia l crush, it came when he and Lillian headed back to Los
Angeles after the New Spirit  premiere. W alt had never been a nostalgist. He
was mor e likely to dramatize th e worst moments of his life than to burnish
the b est. Y et wh at he had alway s cherished about his upbringing in Kansas
City am id the traumas of the pa per route was the Benton School. All these
years he  had kept in touch with his sixth-grade teacher , Daisy Beck, writing
her f aithfully , and he correspond ed with other teachers as well,  so when he
was invited back to the school o n his way from W ashington to celebrate the
installation of two murals he had donated, he accepted, even though he now
routinely declined invitations to speak or be honored. He alw ays said he
was too busy and too poor a speaker .
The one -day return to Benton w as triumphant. Accompanied by a W orks
Progress Administration orchestra, eight hundred students, p arents, and
teachers serenaded him at an ass embly where he showed the New Spirit  and
another cartoon and then had Clarence Nash perform as Donal d Duck. He
was also  awarded the silver lo ving cup that the school’ s sev enty-pound
relay team had won in 1917 when Daisy Beck had convinced W alt to
compete. At a lu ncheon in his honor at a cafeteria on T roost Str eet near his
old Laugh-O-Gram studio, W alt introduced Arthur V erne Cauger , his boss
at the Film Ad Co., and the woman whose baby films had financed his trip
to Califo rnia back in 1923. Afte rward he visited Bert Hudson’ s barbershop,
where h is drawings had first been displayed. He ended the stopover having
dinner w ith Dais y Beck at a local home—which, like the other events of the
day , showed where he had come from and just how far he had traveled
since.