# Página 702  
but to tell a stor y or series of stories in which the guest was put in the role
of th e pr otagonist: Snow White or Mr . T oad or Peter Pan or Alice. And the
stories, one analyst believed, all resolved to an overriding them e, one that
Disney had sounded repeatedly : “that Good triumphs over E vil, that the
little fel low , through a combination of luck, courage, and cunning, can
always overcom e in the end the big bad person in his or her numerous
guises, a ll of which signify Power and its abuse.” Subliminal ly , the park
empowered the guest.
Because the park had been imagined as a set or group of sets, it also
necessarily addr essed the transaction between the reality outside the park
and the fantasy within it—movi ng from one to the other , usurping one with
the othe r . W alt had always intended to transport his guests to a separate
space, and he o nce scolded a publicist who had parked his car where it
could be seen fr om the Mark T wain  because passengers in 1860 could not
possibly imagine  an automobile from 1955. “I want them to fee l they are in
another world,”  he would tell his Imagineers, something he could just as
easily have said about his anima tions. There was general agreement that he
had lar gely succeeded. One reporter visiting Disneyland called it “less an
amusement park  than a state of mind, in the real meaning of the term,”
which w ould become a common sentiment when journalists tried to pin
down Disneyland’ s appeal. More specifically , because it seemed so distinct
from everyday reality , some wo uld think of it as a place in which people
weren’ t so much indulging them selves as being transformed. “Something in
the Disn ey parks, if not Disneyism as such,” critic Greil Marcus would
write, “b rings ou t not necessarily the best or the worst but so often the most
in people—it strips them bare, reduces them to babble or prompts curses
and slur s.” John Hench saw W alt’ s intention as therapeutic. “When W alt
built Disneylan d, he was striving to make people feel b etter about
themselves,” He nch said. “I think he had discovered what p eople were
looking for—the feeling of being alive and in love with life,” which gave
the park an almost religious aura.
The rea son the visitors felt so good, Hench believed, was that W alt
Disney had painstakingly conce ived of his park as ordered and h armonious.
Disneyland had  no ambiguity , no contradictions, and no dissonance. The