# Página 383  
doctor p roposed that Roy and W alt provide their father a loan of $2,000 to
pay his medical bills, but Roy declined. “W e have a tremendous load to
carry at the stud io and we need the strength of all our resources ,” he wrote,
citing an  episod e in which he had cosigned a note for a friend six months
earlier and the friend defaulted.
Flora and Elias were also lonely . They heard infrequently from Roy , and
W alt wrote them only once a year . Herbert, his wife Louise, and their
daughter Dorothy , whom Elias and Flora had followed to Portland, visited
them every Sunday for dinner , but in July 1930 Herbert requested and was
granted another transfer by the postal service, this time to Los Angeles,
where h e felt the climate w ould be better for Dorothy’ s persistent
bronchitis. When Ruth married a local contractor named T ed Beecher and
moved into Herbert’ s old house, Elias and Flora were left by themselves.
Their ho use was adorned with Disney paraphernalia—a picture  of Mickey
Mouse stood beside a photo of W alt on the piano and Flora kept a
scrapbook of W alt’ s exploits—b ut it only reminded them of how much they
missed t heir boy s. “W e wish we  could sell out here and move to  L.A. so we
could all be together ,” Flora wrote one of her nieces as early as 1931. “This
depression will have to clear away before there is any chance of that.”
Now , th anks to Snow White,  th e Depression had cleared away for the
Disneys. For an anniversary present the brothers chipped in to buy their
parents a  house of their own choosing in California. “I think it’ s a great day
in m y li fe,” Elias wrote his cousin Peter Cantelon. “I don’ t exp ect to have
another like it.”  
Snow White  h ad had a salutary ef fect on W alt’ s immediate family too. His
years of obsession with the film, the days and nights and weekends spent at
the stud io, had taken their toll on his relationship with Lillian, who had
never been especially interested in W alt’ s work to begin with and who once
called herself her husband’ s “Se verest Critic” because “I always look on the
dark sid e.” (She was one of the few in W alt’ s inner circle who failed to
appreciate the prospects of Snow White,  saying, “I can’ t stand the sight of