# Página 188  
Indeed, W alt, usually imperturbable, was getting frantic, certain that
Powers would intimidate other  suitors as he had intimidated MGM, and
concerned that Powers might file a breach-of-contract suit against him that
would k eep them tangled in co urt proceedings. He was constantly on the
move, l ooking for a solution. Racing from meetings with lawyers to
meetings with distributors to m eetings with Powers, he had b een in New
Y ork ne arly two weeks before he could meet Lillian for lunch or see a
Broadway show with her . At lunch with animator Dick Huemer , whom W alt
was still trying to enlist for the studio, W alt was unchara cteristically
distracted, sullen, and monosyllabic. “[A]ll through the meal,” Huemer
recalled, “I don’ t think W alt addressed five words to me,” prompting
Huemer to muse what a “stran ge guy” W alt Disney was, especially for
someone who was recruiting.
After a week o f fraying nerves and jousting with Powers, who still
adamantly refu sed to open his books, W alt finally broke with him,
instructing Roy  to stop producing the Mickeys. Then he bra ced for the
inevitable lawsu it, which, when it came, set of f a farcical game of hide-and-
seek. Le ssing ph oned W alt at the  Algonquin Hotel that Powers w as about to
serve him with papers. W alt and Lillian hastily threw their clothes into a
trunk, called a b ellboy , paid the bill, and hailed a cab, telling the driver to
go anyw here. They eventually  found a small hotel, the Piccadilly , and
registered under the names Mr . and Mrs. W alter E. Call, Flora Disney’ s
maiden name. After another week they left New Y ork for California.
All the time he was in the city , W alt had been sending basically cheery
messages back to Roy , reassuring him again and again that everything
would tu rn out satisfactorily . “[W ]hen he really got kicked in the teeth and
got o ut c ompletely ,” Roy later remembered of the split with Powers, “on his
way hom e he tells me, ‘Everything’ s fine. When I get back we ’re going to
make a big start.’…But he really didn’ t have anything. And then on the
train he sweated out some plans. That was typical of him.” It was, Roy
might ha ve added, Charlie Mintz all over again. Even with Mickey Mouse,
they seemed right back at the beginning—back having to fight to make their
cartoons.