# Página 147  
exaggerated pub licity material,” he, W alt, and Roy began meeting daily as
soon as W alt ret urned, flipping through magazines and batting around ideas,
trying to come up with a new  character . As for the inspirat ion, Lillian
herself admitted  that the Kansas City stories about W alt befrie nding mice
were apocryphal. “W e simply thought the mouse would make a cute
character to animate,” she said.  The Aesop’ s Fables that W alt professed to
admire s o much frequently featured mice. Mice also figured prominently in
several Alice comedies—in Alice R attled b y Rats  Julius the Cat is
beleaguered by an entire houseful of mice; in Alice So lves the  Puzzle  mice
play in her washtub; in Alice the Whaler  a m ouse perfor ms comic business
in th e galley; an d in Alice’ s T in Pony  a band of rats attempt to rob a train.
The rodents figured so prom inently that when W alt moved into the
Hyperion studio and wanted a new publicity poster , he had Hugh Harman
draw cartoon characters, includ ing mice, around a photograph of him in
front of the bungalow . (“A couple of the mice looked like Mickey ,” Iwerks
observed. “The only dif ference was the shape of the nose.”) Later , when
W alt was producing the Oswalds, theater posters were routinely adorned
with a pesky , long-eared mouse  who tried to steal the scene by committing
acts of mischief  like cutting the  rope attached to a girder on wh ich Oswald
and his girlfriend sat ( Sky Scrappers ) or parachuting from a plane ( The
Ocean Hop ) o r holding the  billboard on w hich the title was emblazoned
( Gr eat Guns! ).
The real inspiration for centralizing the mouse in the cartoons and the
model for his rough design, a ccording to several of W alt’ s associates,
including Iwerks, were the drawings of Clifton Meek, whose work ran
regularly in the popular humor magazines Life  and Judge,  whi ch W alt, Ro y ,
and Iwerks were rif fling thro ugh at the time. “I grew up with those
drawings,” W alt  told an interviewer . “They were dif ferent from ours—but
they had cute e ars.” It was Iwerks’ s rendering, essentially Oswald with
shorter ears, that became the standard—as Iwerks later described him,
“Pear -shaped body , ball on top, couple of thin legs. Y ou gave it long ears
and it was a rabbit. Short ears, it  was a cat. Ears hanging down a  dog…W ith
an e longated nose, it became a mouse.” As one animation historian put it,
“He was designed for maximum  ease of animation,” since “cir cular forms
were sim pler to animate ef fectively .” “W alt designed a mouse,” animator