# Página 640  
discover that Ebsen never exac tly repeated his steps. Moreover , just as it
had been dif ficult to animate c lothing, Broggie and Rogers could never
quite ge t the mechanical figure’ s pants to flop in the same way that Ebsen’ s
did. Still, they m ade the man dan ce, using the same kind of cam system that
the wind-up toys employed, an d W alt entered a new territory that further
extended the metaphor of control. As the historian Jackson Lears would
observe of this departure, “The quintessential product of the [Disney]
empire would not be fantasy , but simulated reality; not the cartoon
character , but the ‘audio-animatronic’ robot,” of which the “mechanical
man” was the first. W alt Disney had crept closer still to c reating and
perfecting life.
Already in January , even before  the Ebsen experiment, W alt wa s writing
a specia list in display cases that “it always takes a lot of time to work the
bugs ou t of mechanical contraptions and this one must be absolutely right
before I can go ahead on the others,” but that he expected to ha ve a “pretty
good show worked up by next  Christmas.” At the time he had the crew
work on another tableau, this  one of a barbershop quartet, while he
personally work ed on the scene  of Granny in her rocker . By M arch, when
he a sked shorts production chie f Harry T ytle to handle the logistics of the
touring s how , he  had already spe nt nearly $24,000 on the miniat ures and the
train, an d he demanded as much value for his money as he had on the
animations. He was constantly having miniatures sent to him on approval,
then returning them for shoddy craftsmanship or lack of detail. For a man of
his s tature, he w as also surprisingly concerned about the value  of his own
craftsmanship. H e had designed and fabricated by hand small potbellied
stoves that he se nt on consignment to a miniatures dealer in New Y ork, but
he w as i ncensed when the dealer char ged only fifteen dollars and asked that
she “keep them on display for a  while longer and see what you can really
get f or t hem.” W hen the dealer boosted the price to twenty-five dollars and
sold one, W alt glowed. “The thing that pleases me is that you sold a stove
for $25.00!”
Meanwhile, W alt for ged ahead on his exhibition, which was now called
Disneylandia an d which he desc ribed as a series of “visual juke boxes with
the reco rd playing mechanism being replaced by a miniature stage setting.”