# Página 256  
Standing in front of the boards, with an audience of the director , possibly
the anim ators a ssigned to the s hort, and W alt, who invariably sat in the
middle, the storyman would nar rate the events and read the dialogue under
the d rawings. This was not just an informational session. The st oryman had
to “ sell” his pr oject to W alt. Being a good storyman meant not only
devising a plot a nd gags but con vincing W alt of their value. “The best story
guys could act up a storm, laugh uproariously at their favorite gags, and
outshout everyone, while using  a wooden pointer to emphasize the main
elements,” recalled director Jack Kinney . One storyman, Roy W illiams,
would g et so carried away wit h his pointer that he would smash it right
through the board.
During these sessions W alt u sually sat impassively , unless he saw
something that inspired him, and then he would leap to his feet and be of f in
a creativ e convulsion, spinning new ideas, one after another , sometimes
even sho oting down his own c ontribution and adducing another and then
another and another . When he wasn’ t inspired, one attendee remembered,
“one eyebrow would go up and he would start to cough or thump his hand
on the arm of his chair”—the raised eyebrow , the cough, and the drumming
fingers, especia lly loud since W alt’ s fingertips were calcified from his
chain-smoking, three telltale gestures that could strike fear into the heart of
any storyman. At the end of the presentation W alt, “like a Roman Emperor
at th e gladiator combat arena,” as one staf f member described him, would
typically sit in silence, and af ter this dramatic pause, during which the
storyman and sketch artist would be quaking, begin his analysis, leading to
a revision, to a n abandonment, or to the coveted go-ahead. Even then,
however , the story process was  not quite finished. By the mid -1930 s W alt
was subjecting the storyboards t o questionnaires in which studio staf f were
asked what they liked and didn ’ t like and inviting suggestions, for which
W alt of fered prizes as he did for gags.
At first the story men were basically interchangeable, but they soon began
to devel op specialties. One might be good at story structure , another at
character develo pment, a third a t recycling old gags, and a fourth at finding
visual possibiliti es, and W alt would “cast” them, like actors, de pending on
what a particula r animation seemed to need most. By now W alt had added