# Página 571  
head, and then remove the cardboard from the lights when he began singing
so th at h e would seem to be ente ring a bright new world of animation. Like
W alt’ s idea for B ambi on ice, it made for one of the most memo rable scenes
in the film.
But all of that seemed to have taken place a long time ago when W alt
returned to the project after the war to complete the animation. In June 1946
the film, now called Song of the South  (t o the consternation of the Ha rris
family , who preferred the origin al Uncle Remus ), was finally completed—
the first  nonwar -themed Disne y feature in nearly four years. W alt was
pleased. Though it contained less than a half-hour of animation, that limit
allowed the animation to be don e as painstakingly as in the old days. Marc
Davis, a lluding perhaps to how enervating the war work was, said that
“almost all of th e animators that worked on it would have to s ay that they
never di d anything that was mo re fun than that,” in part because they had
such great voices with which to work. Milt Kahl went further . He called it
“kind of  a high in animation.” They weren’ t the only ones who thought it
might be a retu rn to form. “SA W W AL T DISNEY’S SON G OF THE
SOUTH THIS MORNING AN D IT IS IN MY OPINION THE MOST
DELIGHTFUL CREA TION THA T W AL T HAS THUS F AR BROUGHT
T O THE SCREEN,”  RKO executive  Ned Depinet beamed in a telegram he
sent to Gus Eyssell, the manager of the Radio City Music Hall, “AND HAS
SAME WIDE AUDIENCE APPEAL AS SNOW WHITE,”  though V ern
Caldwell wrote W alt skepticall y that while this might be Depinet’ s “real
feeling,” it was at least “the way he is talking it up.”
W alt heard the same kind of enthusiasm from other quarters but also a
more sobering prediction. The Audience Research Institute had determined
that the “highest potential” of the film was $2.4 million—les s than half
what the studio h ad expected. Disney publicist W illiam Levy sai d the figure
“surprised and shocked” him, until he realized that the studi o had been
“feeling the pulse of the T rade”  while ARI had been “feeling the pulse of
the Pub lic.” Now , Levy wrote Roy , they could only hope that word-of-
mouth might save the picture. M eanwhile W alt left the studio on  November
6 for the film’ s premiere at Loew’ s Theatre in Atlanta.