# Página 261  
W alt bec ame too  important to m ingle socially with his staf f; W a lt claimed it
was bec ause Lillian preferred  privacy and the “house belongs to the
woman.” W alt even stopped att ending studio parties because, Lillian said,
the anim ators’ w ives would sometimes get tipsy and reproach him for some
imagined slight to their husban ds. “That’ s a part of them I don’ t want to
see,” W a lt said. Though he mad e another business trip to New Y ork in July
1933 and stopped in Chicago on the way back to see the Century of
Progress Fair there, taking his first plane ride on the final le g from Salt
Lake Ci ty to Los Angeles, he s eldom traveled either and admitted that he
would rather spend a vacation at home.
But he did have  one new recreational passion, one activity ou tside the
studio th at seemed to excite him: polo. Polo, oddly enough, had become
something of a fad in Hollywood in the 1930s, where it was regarded as a
way for those who had been previously mar ginalized, many of t hem Jewish
immigrants, to raise their status by aping the manners of the wellborn.
“From P oland to polo,” went th e quip about Hollywood moguls. As W alt
told it, he was becoming frust rated with his morning golf g ames when
sometime in the spring of 1932  humorist W ill Rogers and film executive
Darryl F . Zanuck, both of whom  were polo enthusiasts, suggested that he
take up polo instead. After watching a few matches at their invi tation, W alt
decided that “it was golf on hors eback” and bought a few ponies. Of course
it was not in W alt Disney’ s nature to do anything casually . He immediately
began recruiting staf f from the studio, including Roy , and h ired a polo
champion named Gil Proctor to lecture them in the studio conference room
on the fine points of the game. At six every morning throughout the spring
and summer eight players would gather at the DuBrock Riding Academy in
the San Fernand o V alley , where they would break into teams and practice.
W alt eventually installed a polo cage at the studio so players could swat
balls during their lunch break, and he put a dummy horse in his backyard
and spen t mornings even before heading to DuBrock sitting there knocking
balls. On Sunday mornings th e crew would often congregate at W ill
Rogers’ s ranch for impromptu matches. During the games Ro gers would
gibe W alt, calling him “Mickey” or “Mickey Mouse.”