# Página 319  
as they were gearing up for Snow White,  anyone who had been with the
studio a full year as of July 1, 1935, was granted a two-week vacation.
And it wasn’ t just perks W alt doled out. The studio paid well too.
Animators generally made betw een $100 and $125 a week, a veritable
fortune d uring th e Depression, and the very top animators, like Art Babbitt,
brought down as much as $15,000 a year , enough for him to af ford three
cars and two ser vants. Despite Roy’ s repeated warnings to monitor money
closely , W alt refused to skimp. He was constantly on the lookout for any
employee who he felt might be underpaid, and he would then instruct the
payroll of fice to make a salary adjustment. “His ambition,” wrote a reporter ,
“is to pay his em ployes [ sic ] we ll enough fo r them to save for old age and
still enjoy living as they go along.”
But if this was paternalism, it was paternalism in service of a higher
principle—not just ef ficiency or happiness or public relatio ns or even
W alt’ s r evered quality but a new kind of business or ganization that
promised a new kind of soci al relationship that harked back to Elias
Disney’ s old American Society for Equity: W alt Disney wanted  to create a
haven on earth as he had in his cartoons. He wanted an or g anization in
which e veryone would be selfless and happy . Joe Grant r emembered
working at his d esk one Sunday when W alt approached. “‘Y ou know , Joe,’
he said,  with a sense of pride at the way things were going, ‘this whole
place runs on a kind of Jesus Christ communism,’” doubtless without
realizing that he was the Christ.  Still, W alt was right that the D isney studio
operated dif fere ntly from any other studio, and from any oth er business
generally for that matter , in its employees’ sense of commitm ent, and he
was not  the only one who recognized it. Left-wing observers particularly
lauded him for his collective approach to art. New Republic  film critic Otis
Fer guson, callin g Disney a “pioneer in more things than his conception of
and tireless experiment with the animation cartoon,” cited Disney’ s
“conference method” in which artists selflessly pooled their individual
talents to make a film. Another  critic praised “The Communalistic Art of
W alt Dis ney ,” while a third, writing in the leftist New Theatr e,  extolled the
“marvelous creative values engendered by collective collaboration” in
Disney’ s films. Although in tru th the studio was still a cult an d individual