# Página 241  
artist. H e stood at the front of th e cavernous room holding a lit cigarette that
he kept passing from hand to ha nd as he talked, riveting the class as the ash
edged closer to those fingers. The task that he set for himself was, in one
student’ s words,  “necessarily impossible.” He had no training i n animation
himself, but it w asn’ t animation  that W alt wanted him to teach. Rather , he
taught a group of crusty New Y ork animators, former newspaper
cartoonists, sometime art students, and talented dabblers the art of
figurative drawi ng without, said one animator , imposing a single style on
them. H e was laying a foundation, teaching them how to draw , really draw ,
which meant, as one animator came to realize, that “he was sing le-handedly
attacking the traditional concept of animation as simply moving comic
strips” and trading it for realis m. It was Graham who now painstakingly
showed them the ef fect of gravity on mass, and how flesh and muscle
move, a nd the role of secondary ef fects. Art Babbitt said that G raham was
the one who tau ght him “to ana lyze” and taught him as well that “only the
slightest little of fbeat element  in a person’ s movement ma kes him a
distinctly dif ferent character .” Another animator , Shamus Culhane, went so
far as to say that after W alt Disney himself, Don Graham had t he “greatest
impact o n the philosophy of the medium [by trying to] create a group of
sophisticated fil mmakers educated in the theories of the Old Masters,
modern art, acting, and the scientific principles of movement.”
At a studio dedicated to excellence, Graham became a kind of hero for
prodding the animators toward fine art. As the students drew and Graham
wandered amon g them, gazing over their shoulders at their pads, he had
only tw o assessments. Either he asked, “Having problems?” or he said,
“Looks like you’re having fun. ” The second, according to on e animator ,
was the “supreme apothegm, the  supreme tribute, the ne plus ultra, because
having fun meant that somethin g was sinking in; the lessons were bearing
fruit. I would rather hear Don Graham say , ‘Having fun?’” the animator
said, “than win an Academy A ward.”
In due course G raham would be added to the studio payroll full-time,
teaching three days and two n ights each week, while the st udio school
expanded to five nights a week with 150 students at a cost, it was estimated,
of $100,000 a year . Meanwhile W alt complemented Graham’ s instruction