# Página 74  
theater , moved to Kansas City , and entered the slide business full-time,
shooting the pictures himself and then traversing the Midwest selling them
to exhibitors. When competitors started making filmed ads, Cauger entered
that business too, in time shifting almost exclusively to film.
It was the film ads that W alt was now drawing, and they fascin ated him.
Many of them w ere live action, but the ones for which he was hired were
animated pictures. By any standard the animation at the Sli de Co. was
crude, intended  less for artistry than for economy . Basically the artists
would draw a picture, cut out the movable parts, tack them with pins to a
board, move the parts slightly  and photograph the image, move them
slightly again and photograph ag ain, repeating the process over and over so
that when the film was run and the incremental movements were strung
together , they would give the im pression of continuous action. The fact that
it wa s a primitive technique, though, made no dif ference to W alt, who just
wanted t o gain experience. “I go t a fine job here in K.C.,” he wrote one of
his o ld R ed Cro ss compatriots proudly a few months after joining the Slide
Co., “and I’m go ing to stick with  it. I draw cartoons for the moving pictures
—advertiser films—…and the work is interesting.”
Though W alt had intended to continue Iwwerks-Disney to supplement his
income and provide some flexibility for his career , the company did not
long sur vive his leaving it. Iwwerks simply did not have the tem perament to
run a  bu siness w ithout him. As W alt later explained, “[T]he few customers I
had wou ld call him—he would just sit there [because] he couldn’ t give the
old sales pitch.” Unable to drum up business and seeking the safety of
regular e mployment, Iwwerks a sked W alt if there might be an opening at
the S lide Co. So the partners closed the shop less than two mo nths after it
had opened, and that March Iwwerks went to work for Cauger too, sitting
alongside W alt and the other artists at their long tables and drawing slides
and cartoons.
W alt, w ho was sanguine about most things, did not seem terribly
distressed by the demise of his small firm. Though he had alre ady printed
his o wn stationery featuring a c aricature of himself at his draw ing board,
pages flying of f, and declaring himself available for “Cartoons,