# Página 676  
W ith Disneyland ’ s po pularity , W alt was now not  only a kind of logo for
the stud io; he had himself becom e one of its stars, like Mickey Mouse and
Donald Duck, with even a pers onal publicist to promote him—to promote
“W alt Disney .” That December , seventeen years to the day after his first
T ime  c over , for Snow White,  he was featured again on the cover of the
magazine, which conveyed the  new image of Disney as a homegrown
cultural behemo th—a “genuine  hand-hewn American original with the
social ad ze-marks sticking out all over”—and claimed that “Disneyism has
swept th e world .” W ard Kimball remembered that when he and W alt went
to Gree nfield V illage in 1948, no one had recognized him until word
circulated that Disney was there. It had always been the name “W alt
Disney” that created a stir , not t he face of W alt Disney . T elevis ion changed
that—“ the  change in his life,” Kimball felt. After Disneyland,  W alt Disney
was per haps the most widely recognized filmmaker in the world, and
Kimball believe d that W alt had  to conform to the public persona, which
made him the very personification of American wholesomeness and
decency . He was not merely sub sumed by the persona, as he had been in the
postwar years; he felt he had to internalize it, live within it, becoming a
prisoner of his image as he had been a prisoner of his studio. “I smoke and I
drink an d there’ s a whole lot of things I do that I don’ t want to be part of
that image,” he told an empl oyee. Diane Disney agreed that he had
changed. “Y ou could see how he grew between the beginning of television
and Disneyland,” she said. “T elevision didn’ t change him as a person, but I
do think it led to a more polished personality .”
Even at social gatherings at his Carolwood home, Kimball rem embered,
W alt wo uld appear in a straw hat, brand-new blue jeans with big cuf fs, and
an o ld p laid lum berjack shirt (Diane denied he ever wore the o utfit except
for publicity), and he would excuse himself to go work in his shop,
emer ging occasi onally to mingle—“letting people know he was a common
man,” as Kimball said. And al though, Kimball observed, W al t may have
“played the role of a bashful tycoon who was embarrassed in public, he
knew exactly what he was doing at all times.” T o his detractors, this duality
vindicated their  judgment that Disney had betrayed his early cultural
subversion. Social historian Jackson Lears would see him as the “most
flagrant example of that widespread phenomenon in American cultural