# Página 434  
but the Administration Building by October . Once again time was of the
essence. W ith so many films i n production, the studio couldn’ t af ford a
protracted transi tion. “It is going  to save the studio a lot of money if we can
get all these buil dings built and r eady for occupancy as soon as possible and
close to the sam e time, and ca using as little loss of time or confusion as
possible in the move over ,” Roy wrote Crowhurst and Bill Garity , who was
taking care of the technical deta ils, with the idea that if they k ept most of
the work in house, they could expedite construction.
If time was of the essence, so was money . Even be fore the
groundbreaking, Roy was debat ing whether , to cut costs, they could put the
administrative o f fices in the Animation Building or whether to eliminate a
wing of the An imation Building or whether they really needed a lar ge
soundstage and theater .* They also discussed whether they should keep the
training program at Seward Street, where it had been temporarily installed,
because space at the new studio  would be at a premium and they wouldn’ t
have the resources to build an ything new for years. In the end they cut
surprisingly few corners, despit e the fact that, with the production delays,
money w as no longer flowing into the studio as it had after Snow White.
Instead R oy , at the ur ging of Joe Rosenber g and with the interve ntion of the
Bank of America’ s Doc Gia nnini, applied to the government for a
Reconstruction Finance Loan in  June 1939 and traveled to W ashington later
that month to pr ess his case per sonally . “Any questions and discussions all
seemed to be p ointing to their trying to find reasons and excuses for
presentation to the board of a recommendation that the loan be made,” Roy
wrote Geor ge Morris after his meeting.
While Roy raised the money , W alt seemed to be relishing the
construction as much as he had relished the planning. He visited the site
often, s ometimes taking Diane  and Sharon, who loved to stand in the
cavernous empty  rooms and yel l. (W alt cited his admonishments to them to
a Bambi  story crew to suggest behavior for the Owl.) He also brought his
father th ere, hoping to jar him out of the depression into which he had sunk
since Flora’ s death. “I thought h e would be excited by this big t hing,” W alt
later said, perhaps tipping his hand that the new studio w as another
demonstration of his success and power to a father who had so often denied