# Página 682  
internalize his image, America in the 1950s began to internalize hers. As
T ime ’ s c hest-thumping suggested, “W alt Disney’ s America” was a
reassuring artifice that was embraced as a reality—the spiritual equivalent
of D isneyland. It was the face, or the carapace, that the c ountry had
assumed to show to itself and to the world.
While the success of Disneyland  h ad many ma rkers, including  W alt’ s
stardom, Davy Cr ockett,  the interest in space, and the idealization of
America itself, one thing the pr ogram did not do was turn a p rofit for the
studio. W hen al l was said and done, the studio figured to earn $73,000 per
program from ABC, including repeats. But the budgets—which ranged
from $1 4,500 fo r a program on Alice in W onderland  to the nearly $300,000
for each of the Cr ockett  episodes and for the first Man in Space —averaged
just ove r $100,0 00. As he had done with the features, W alt plowed every
cent bac k into production and then some, though he also made commercials
for several of the sponsors and contracted with several companies for them
to underwrite programs that would serve essentially as hour -long
promotions for the companies’ agendas. (The Portland Cement Association,
for exam ple, gave the studio $200,000 to produce a film titled Magic
Highway U.S.A. ) T he objective,  however , had n ever been to make a profit.
It was to promote Disneyland and publicize the new features, which made
Disneyland  itself a commercial.
That syn er gy became even more important with a decision mad e by Roy
just befo re the first program aired. For years Roy had been dissa tisfied with
RKO’ s distribution, and though he renewed the contract in 1943, the very
next year , unhappy with RKO ’ s lax publicity , he recommended that the
studio hire an ad  agency to promote its films. Even with the con tract, RKO
had initi ally refused to distribute Seal Island  and T wo Fabulous Characters,
which had been renamed The Adv entur es of Ichabod and Mr . T oad.  “By and
lar ge, they are all nice fellows,” Roy wrote W alt in September 1948, “and
they all try to cooperate on the surface, but underneath you feel that
resistance, and sometimes it fla res into an open break.” Roy thought RKO
wasn’ t g etting the studio half of what the pictures should be making,
especially since, he felt, the ma jor studios were colluding to protect their