# Página 304  
departments of various newspap ers in the San Francisco Bay Area—it was
at one of these that he met Lu ske—before drawing ads for a W est Coast
theater c hain and then freelancing until Luske made his suggestion. Kahl
was hired.
Frank Thomas had taken up drawing as a child because he was lonely
and frien dless, and he pursued it through high school in Fresno, California,
and late r college, first at Fre sno State College, where his father was
president, and then at Stanfo rd. Upon graduation Thomas, who was
bespectacled and professorial, left for Los Angeles and enrolled at
Chouinard. A Stanford friend a nd fellow artist named Jim Alg ar , who had
also gon e to Los Angeles, had c ome to Disney’ s attention, and h e suggested
Thomas apply as well. Thomas passed a one-week tryout and began work in
September 1934. Meanwhile another Stanford friend of Thomas’ s named
Ollie Jo hnston was serving as m anager of the Stanford football team and
visiting Los Angeles for the Rose Bowl when he decided to enroll at
Chouinard himself. He was rooming with Thomas when Donald Graham
invited him to try out at the studio. Three weeks later he was hi red. A little
more than a year later he replaced Thomas as Fred Moore’ s assistant.
Another of these prize recruits, John Lounsbery , discovered drawing at
the age of thirteen when his father died, then attended art school in Denver
after wo rking b riefly on the ra ilroad. He continued his studies at the Art
Center i n Los Angeles, where one of his instructors referred  him to the
Disney studio in the summer of 1935. He was joined there by the last of
what would eventually become the band of master animators, Marc Davis.
Davis w as the son of a first-generation Jew of Russian extr action who
traveled the country with a m indreading act before landing finally in
Klamath Falls, Oregon. Like W ard Kimball, Davis attended nearly two
dozen schools, which provided  him with the kind of lonely , peripatetic
childhood that seemed practically obligatory for animators who amused
themselves with drawing. Moving to northern California, Davis drew
theater posters and newspaper a ds. It was a theater owner in Y uba City who
suggested he work for Disney ,  and when his father died, Davis and his
mother relocated to Los Angeles. He visited the Disney stud io and was
hired that December as an assis tant. “Attended classes day and night,” he