# Página 709  
who was being considered f or a biographical television special on
Beethoven obse rved how cautious the staf f was lest they make a decision
that mig ht upset  W alt, even though some of them had been at the studio for
decades. “Fear , in fact, seemed to be their normal state—one that I would
soon learn was warranted,” she  wrote. “They had witnessed th e summary
firing of  others who had disagreed just once with Disney . They liked their
work; they valued their careers; they knew better than to cross their
tyrannical boss.” Ben Sharpstee n, who had been at the studio since 1929,
often in the role of W alt’ s whipp ing boy , developed a nervous co ndition that
required him to take frequent leaves from the studio. “These seem to be
occurring oftener and for longer durations,” he wrote W alt.
An associate described W alt as “steel springs inside a silk pillow ,” but the
springs k ept pok ing through. He was often cold and baleful now . “[A]ll the
dead wood is going to be weeded out,” he wrote Gunther Lessing after
being reelected as chairman of the board just as Disneyland was ramping
up, and  he saw dead wood everywhere. After ordering Bil l Anderson
halfway through the first season to fire one member of the staf f of The
Mickey Mouse Club —“I fee l he is s till on our payr oll, but I do not know
why”—W alt added: “Also check on everybody in the Mouseketeer Group
who has  been carried over . I b elieve that outside of the 9 Mouseketeers,
Jimmy [ sic ] Do dd and Roy  W illiams, we should start from scratch…. Let’ s
make a thorough check on the setup of the Mouseketeers and see that we
are not carrying people who are not needed”—this after th e staf f had
practically broke n themselves to rush the program to the air . Sim ilarly A. G.
Keener , who had been the paymaster at the studio for fifteen years, was
dismissed and given a referenc e letter more appropriate to a  short-term
employee: “Because of world market conditions, our or ganization has been
compelled to under go a drastic reduction in personnel. And in line with this
cut, Mr . Keener ’ s Department has been absorbed by the general Accounting
Department.” Norm Fer guson, once the premier animator , was terminated
because he had b ecome “dead wood.” Fred Moore had been reinstated, then
terminated again —still dead wood. (He would die a short time later in an
automobile accident; W alt did not attend the funeral.) Fred Leahy was
finally f ired (W alt insisted he h ad resigned), and Hal Adelquist, after two
decades of performing some of the most thankless tasks at the studio,