# Página 531  
But Saludos  and  its sequel had never interested W alt much. They were
essentially jobs to maintain cash flow . He was much more enthusiastic
about V ictory T hr ough Air Power ,  to which he returned early in 1943. More
than ever W alt was convinced that the war could not be won with land
forces an d naval attacks, and tha t in any case the country could not af ford a
fully eq uipped army , navy , and air force simultaneously . And he still
believed that V ictory  could change n ot only the cour se of the war but also
the c ourse of th e world. “It’ s im portant,” he told The New  Y ork T imes  that
February . “Peop le need to know about it. A lot of them are still bound by
traditional ways of thinking and a movie like this can break thro ugh a lot of
misconceptions.”
The stum bling b lock was entertainment value. V ictory  was not another
subsidized gove rnment film. It w as being financed by the studio , and it had
to re turn a profit. When he was shown finished reels and storybo ards late in
February , theater chain executiv e Spyros Skouras emphasized that the film
had to be entertaining and not a “scientific exhibit.” W alt, who had always
emphasized entertainment value himself until Fantasia,  wasn’ t so sure. This
time there was something more valuable than entertainment. “Don’ t you
think that if th e public after s eeing this picture feel they h ave learned
something—for once it’ s clear in their minds,” W alt countered, “—isn’ t that
important?” And as Skouras kept hammering away about entertainment,
W alt kept insisting that he was m aking the film not because it could provide
escapism but because “we belie ve in the thing so badly . I felt HERE’S A
MESSAGE THA T IS GREA TER THAN A LOT OF THE STUFF WE’VE
BEEN DOING HERE ON PROP AGANDA.  I  thoug ht here was a message
that might do some real good.”
W alt for ged ahead, fending of f the navy’ s continuing objections and
threats and working around Seversky’ s increasingly heav y speaking
schedule. That winter , after reth inking the film, he had decided to scrap the
live scen es of Seversky he had  shot in October and rewrite the script to
reduce the major ’ s dialogue a nd simplify and strengthen his ar gument.
Corralling Seve rsky for two months beginning in April 1943, W alt hired
director H. C. P otter , fresh from Hellzapoppin’,  a nd cinematogr apher Ray
Rennahan, fresh of f an Academy A ward for Blood and Sand,  to  shoot the