# Página 769  
protested that the project was five years from completion, Moses waved
him of f. He was determined to have his Lincoln.
The obstacle, like the obstacle for the Hall of Presidents, was finding an
institution that would sponsor w hat was sure to be an extremely expensive
endeavor . But Moses wasn’ t go ing to be dissuaded. He hunted for months
and fina lly found a prospect when the legislature of Illinois, Lincoln’ s home
state, es tablished a commission  for the fair , and the commission decided
that the theme of its exhibit w ould be “The Land of Linco ln.” Moses
immediately had Joe Potter , the fair ’ s executive vice president, and Martin
Stone, its head of the industrial sector , contact the commission’ s temporary
chairman, adver tising executive  Fairfax Cone, ur ging him to see Disney’ s
Lincoln. Cone visited the st udio in April and pronounced himself
“overwhelmed.” T wo weeks later Cone phoned Jack Sayers to confirm his
interest and say that he and key  Illinois leaders “look with great favor on
the possibility of the Lincoln figure as the ‘show’ feature of their Fair
exhibit.” The commission conve ned that May to discuss the Lincoln figure,
and W al t tentati vely agreed to $ 400,000 for the first year and $200,000 for
the second, but when the state l egislature appropriated only $1  million for
the e ntire pavilion, the commission’ s new permanent chairman, a Lincoln
scholar named Ralph Newman, asked W alt to reconsider . Even Moses wired
W alt ur ging him to lower his demand. W alt would not budge, calling his
of fer the “best b usiness proposition we can consider” and cla iming to be
relieved that “we do not have t o proceed with the Lincoln figu re,” though
privately he admitted that he would be willing to settle for $ 250,000 the
first yea r of the fair and $350,0 00 for the second once the attraction had
proven itself.
W alt was playing hardball not o nly with the Illinois commission but with
Moses who, W alt knew , was not about to lose his Lincoln over a few
hundred thousan d dollars. As negotiations stalled that summer , Moses made
concessions to Illinois on security , rental fees, and utilities, then finally
of fered the state a secret $25 0,000 subsidy to pay Disney .* W ith that
Illinois had its exhibit. On No vember 19, the centennial observance of
Lincoln’ s Gettysbur g Address, W alt, Moses, and Ralph Newm an flew to
Springfield, the Illinois state capital, to meet Governor Otto Kerner and