# Página 618  
—were barrelin g ahead to finish Cinder ella.  W alt supervised, as always,
and his was the final word, but  he was considerably less involved than on
Snow White  o r even Dumbo,  and some of the staf f complained about it.
“W alt is not an artist,” one former employee told a reporter . “He doesn’ t
have the  instinc ts or the imagin ation of an artist. His little-kno wn virtue is
that of a great producer , who  happens to recognize the im portance of
putting out a product technically better than anyone else’ s.” Another
employee described W alt’ s demeanor as more “businesslike” now , less
excitable but also less exciting. Harry T ytle found him more un predictable.
W alt had ordered T ytle not to renew the contract of comp oser Oliver
W allace, who had written some of the score for Cinder ella,  because W alt
wanted to divert the raise W allace was due to in-betweeners;  then a few
months later he demanded to know why W allace wasn’ t under contract.
Still, despite W alt’ s disengagement and unpredictability , everyone knew
what wa s at stake on Cinder ella.  It was the first real animated feature since
Bambi,  and  W a lt had told his employees early in the production, “Boy s, if
Cinder ella  doesn’ t make it , we’re through!” He certainly wouldn’ t have had
the resou rces to begin another fe ature once Alice in W onderland,  already in
production, was  completed. When the film was finished late that fall of
1949, W alt was, typically , not entirely happy . “The finished pi cture is not
everything that we wanted it to be,” he told one magazine editor , “but,
today , it  is quite a problem wha t with costs, labor , etc., to do a ll the things
you would like to,” and he boasted that “we are now getting our
or ganization in such shape that I think we are going to come out with a real
post-war production— ALICE IN WONDERLAND —which is now in
work. I t looks unusually good.” T o another interviewer he said of
Cinder ella,  “That was just a picture.”
In fact, despite the shortcuts in the animation and the eventual lack of
passion from the staf f, most peo ple saw Cinder ella  as a we lcome r eturn to
form for W alt D isney after the years of disappointments. W illiam Levy ,
now W alt’ s eastern press repres entative, had held four days of  screenings
that November and reported “un stinting praise from all,” saying that many
“rate Ci nderella above Snow White.” How much of this was wishful
thinking or the d esperation of Disney admirers to see him regain his art and