# Página 590  
protested again st Sorrell’ s union. When W alt said that he wouldn’ t
recognize the union, Sorrell, wh o, W alt told the committee, he believed was
a Communist, sneered that he would “smear” W alt, and Sorre ll had been
true to his word. W alt couldn’ t remember all the groups that s meared and
boycotted him— “one that is cl ear in my mind is the League of W omen
V oters”—but he did cite People’ s W orld,  the Daily W orker ,  and PM  as three
publications that he knew had flayed him. He couldn’ t remember the
Communist emp loyees who had incited his studio either—only the union
agitator David Hilberman. And as for whether the Comm unist Party
deserved to be outlawed, W alt called the party an “un-American thing,”
though he said he wasn’ t qualified to determine whether it would violate
rights to  banish  it. Chairman J.  Parnell Thomas praised his fi lms and his
testimony , and W alt Disney’ s day was done.
W alt had  played  his part—the p art of the aggrieved hero of the common
man, the Horatio Alger industr ialist, who had been besieged b y left-wing
ideologues—and H. A. Smith called his testimony “as ef fective as that of
any witn ess.” Save for one prob lem. In citing Communist or ganizations that
had attacked him in the wake of the strike, W alt had indicted the
nonpartisan civic group the League of W omen V oters. The league,
astonished, immediately ordered an investigation to determine if any of its
members in the California chapter had taken part in the Disney labor
dispute, and an of ficer wrote W alt asking for the names of the women
involved. W alt answered the request with a tepid retract ion to the
committee, saying that in 1941 “several women [supporting the strikers]
represented themselves as being  from the League of W omen V oters,” but
averred that he was not criticizing the current league. Meanwhile, Gunther
Lessing was frantically conducting his own investigation and discovered
four lett ers in his file, at least one of which W alt had seen, from the
Hollywood League of W omen Shoppers  supporting the strikers, though
Lessing also wrote W alt that he thought the local chapter of the League of
W omen V oters “appear[s] to hav e followed the party line about  the time of
the Disney strike,” which was patently false. A few weeks later Lessing
conceded and wrote the league to apologize for W alt’ s mistake, suggesting
that W alt would “recommend your or ganization whenever the opportunity
presents itself.”