# Página 408  
W alt moved quickly , perhaps fearing that Stokowski’ s passion might ebb.
By February the studio had canceled Stokowski’ s Appr entice  contract,
which ca lled for 10 percent of the gross, and drafted a new con tract paying
him $125,000 to conduct the score for and appear in the n ew Concert
Featur e.
Exactly why W alt had moved so rapidly on a new feature when he
already had Bambi  and Pinocchio  in production and was doing preliminary
work on Peter Pan  and Alice in W onderland  ma y not have been readily
apparent to those at the studio. Sharpsteen would say that it was a matter of
economic expediency . The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  w as simply too  long and
too expensive to be either theatrically or financially viable as a short, and
Stokowski’ s compilation feature gave him a way out. Sharpsteen may have
been right that e conomics were a consideration—W alt said tha t he needed
to make  another challenging feature or his animators might ge t bored and
restless and decide to leave—bu t it hardly seemed the major one. W alt had
always wanted to do more poetic, musically inclined shorts, and throughout
1935, 1936, and 1937 he kept re turning to an idea for a Silly Symphony he
called Flower Ballet,  for which he ex plicitly ar gued against a tight story in
favor of  somethi ng tonal. Even w ith Snow White  i n high gear , W alt couldn’ t
seem to let it go.
His growing animus toward conventional narrative and his predilection
for t his kind of animation was another example of W alt’ s ongoing need for
a challen ge, his need to make sure that he wasn’ t stagnating and was still
the very  best, his need to enlar g e his creative world and fend of f incursions
from pretenders to his throne. “I can’ t get into a rut or let my boys get into
ruts,” he would tell a reporter . “If we quit growing mentally and artistically
we w ill begin to  die.” During th e preparation for The Concert Featur e  W alt
would sound this idea again and again, just as he had throughout his career:
They need to g r ow . They need to outdo themselves. They need to keep
“plussing.”  As ked by one storyman if W alt felt they were taking full
advantage of the cartoon medi um, he riposted, “This is not the cartoon
medium. It should not be limited to cartoons. W e have worlds to conquer
here…. W e’ve got more in this medium than making people laugh.” The
gags tha t had been so integral to his shorts, the gags around whic h the entire