# Página 797  
to be installed in  a five-story building in the downtown St. Louis area. But
W alt hadn’ t committed to anything yet, and despite the news story , he wrote
one corr espondent that the “St. Louis project is only in the tal king stage.”
By the end of the year he had lost interest. Some claimed, falsely , that
August Busch, Jr ., the head of the Anheuser -Busch brewery located in St.
Louis, had scolded W alt and called him “crazy” for declaring that liquor
would n ot be sold on the premises; others claimed that W alt and the local
of ficials couldn’ t agree on the finances, which were projected b y Disney to
be $40 million.
But the real reason may have been that W alt had by that time found
another , better location. From the beginning, when he  had first
contemplated another theme par k, one of the most logical sites w as Florida,
lar gely because of the weather , and as early as 1959 W alt candidly told a
reporter for the Miami Herald  that he had been driving through the state and
had come to the conclusion that “Florida would be better than California in
many ways.” This wasn’ t just idle talk. At the time W alt was already in
discussions with  RCA and with  multimillionaire John D. MacArthur , head
of Banker ’ s Life Insurance, about developing a “recreational enterprise”
called th e City of T omorrow on five to six thousand acres no rth of Palm
Beach that MacArthur owned. The plan was to place a new theme park
within a planned community , just as W alt had hoped to place his schools
within a  City of the Arts. As always, W alt commissioned Harri son Price to
do a feasibility study , and Price determined that the “area of fers a theme
park attendance  potential which equals or exceeds that exp erienced by
Disneyland in Southern California.” Even Roy reconnoitered the property
in M acArthur ’ s limousine, spec ially equipped with a hydraulic system that
lifted the car ab ove the palmettos, then went to New Y ork to lobby with
RCA, hoping, he said, that WE D’ s world’ s fair projects would “influence
RCA ’ s plans.”
As i t tur ned out,  the plan faltere d and was eventually abandoned. “It just
wasn’ t working” was how Bill Cottrell put it. But enthusiasm for building a
new park in Flo rida still ran hig h. In his studies Price had come upon one
stubborn fact: “It was that Dis neyland, in Anaheim—for all of its high
penetration in the available Sou thern California tourism—had a  low rate of