# Página 433  
wonderful children who happen ed to be animals, innocent and unaware of
the realities of their futures.”
But contrary to Hand, W alt did spend a considerable amount of time that
November and December reviewing continuities, and if he did not
participate as actively as he had on Snow White  or Pinocchio,  he was
nevertheless the primary sensibi lity who could devise an entire sequence in
a sudden burst of inspiration. In the middle of one meeting W alt abruptly
interjected what  he called “just the flash that came to my min d here” and
started describin g a new open ing for the film: “Say we open up with
morning in the forest. Everything is getting up. And then you come to the
old Owl  and he’ s going to sleep.  And then we introduce the Squirrel and the
Chipmunk. W e introduce all the characters we want to in that morning.”
And then “this n oise breaks loose that it’ s here—it’ s happened—where they
begin fl ying around, and the whole damned woods begins to fuss and
swarm” with the birth of Bambi. The final version was very much as W alt
described it at the meeting. A few weeks later , musing on the winter
sequence, he came up with the idea of Bambi on the ice pond. “He has
never been on ice before. It is like putting Pluto on ice with skates on him.
He just can’ t stand up. He is having a hell of a time.” This scene too wound
up in the final film.
IV
That December as he was tinkering with Bambi,  W alt Disney had yet one
more imposing task before him: he was supervising the move from
Hyperion to the new studio in Burbank. All the time that he was  working on
Pinocchio, Fantasia,  and Bambi,  through the dozens upon dozens of
meetings and sweatbox sessions, he had also been engaged in t he planning
and con struction at Burbank, typically consulting with the engineers and
architects three times a week and advancing the project in a trial-and-error
manner not unlike that on Bambi.  “A ll was neb ulous then,” Frank
Crowhurst, the general contracto r , said of the various ideas they considered.
“W e hoped  it would work.” They had broken ground on the Animation
Building in late February 1939 , with the intention of finishing  everything