# Página 719  
Lillian’ s niece, Phyllis, who wa s producing television commercials on the
lot with her husband, the acclaimed Hollywood glamour photographer
Geor ge Hurrell. For most of this time she dated a young Kansa s City–born
interior designe r named Robert Brown, who had worked at Pereira-
Luckman and then, when that partnership ended, for Charles Luckman
Associates. Shar on introduced him to her father in March 1959, while W alt
was in the hosp ital convalescin g from a bout of kidney stones, and the
couple were married two month s later , on May 10, in a small ceremony at
the First Presbyterian Church in Pacific Palisades. (It was  so hastily
arranged that Roy , having mad e other plans, couldn’ t attend.) Though he
genuinely liked Brown, W alt seemed traumatized at “losing” his daughter .
During the ceremony , Diane sai d, he “shook like a man with a fever ,” and
when Sh aron an d her new husb and were dancing at the receptio n, W alt cut
in, snapp ing to his new son-in-l aw , “This isn’ t your dance yet. Y ou get her
the rest of your life.” Sharon admitted that her father was “a little annoyed.”  
Now W alt and Lillian were alo ne, thrown back on themselves. The only
other pe rson in the house was th eir cook and housekeeper , Thelma Howard.
Like Lillian, Howard had been born in Idaho, one of a lar ge family , but hers
had been  dogge d by tragedy . Th elma’ s mother had died in childbirth when
Thelma was six, and a sister had died at the age of eight when she and
Thelma were cooking dinner on  a wood-burning stove and the girl’ s dress
caught f ire. At eighteen Thelma left for Los Angeles. By the tim e she came
to work for the Disneys in 1951, at the age of thirty-eight, she had been
annealed by life. She was a slig ht woman but feisty , with thick , short hair
and a rugged face. She loved to smoke, as W alt did, and play gin rummy .
W alt, finding in her the same brassy , iconoclastic spirit he had found in
Hazel Geor ge, enjoyed her com pany—in part, no doubt, because Lillian
often seemed so sharp and br ittle by comparison. He could joke with
Thelma, tease her , criticize her cooking, and tell her she ought to go to
Bif f ’ s, a  local watering hole, and  find out how they prepared their food. She
was fully a part of the Disney family .