# Página 198  
existence. In his early cartoons , some of which are musical revues, he is
wholly a musical creature—as much Fred Astaire as Charlie Chaplin.
Hearing notes, Mickey cannot  help but dance, sing, and make music
himself, turning  everything he spots into an instrument and converting
reality into happiness. Even his relationship with Minnie  Mouse is
musically inspired; they literall y make beautiful music together and bring
joy and harmon y , even fluidity , out of what is often threat and  chaos. And
this is also why the cartoons typically end with Mickey beaming or
laughing, a chipper spirit, no matter what has befallen him. For all the
subliminal attractions of his shape or his size or his sexuality , Mickey’ s
secret, the appeal of which is  obvious and not limited to Depression
America, is that he can always make things right in his head— just as W alt
Disney , the escape artist, could.  In the end Mickey Mouse was the eternal
promise of cheerful solipsism.
V
W ith M ickey’ s sur ging popularity and with the new , potentially lucrative
Columbia contract, W alt Disney’ s sanctuary on Hyperion A venue was
under going its own transformation. Once again, as he had previously done
when things were going well, W alt was hiring—cherry-picki ng the best
talent. That winter of 1930 he brought aboard T ed Sears, an animator and
gagman at the F leischer studio who was said to be responsible for some of
the Fleis chers’ funniest materia l. Sears had made a “semi-promise” to the
Fleischers that he would stay , bu t W alt, in a signal of the studio’ s increasing
specialization, enticed him as the studio’ s first storyman and h eld out the
possibility of his helping W alt produce live-action comedies—an idea to
which W alt kept returning. Another animator , Harry Reeves, who had been
working for Pat Sullivan on the Felixes, also signed on, his aban donment of
Felix for  Mickey  a sign of just how the animation tables had turned. He was
so eager  to join the Disneys tha t he even of fered to pay his ow n traveling
expenses. At roughly the sam e time W alt approached Grim Natwick,
another Fleische r veteran and the designer of the Fleischers’ Betty Boop
character , about coming west to the Disneys despite a competin g of fer from
W alter L antz at Universal. Natwick decided to stay in New Y ork, but he had