# Página 612  
Now came the typical race to f inish the film in time for its c ontracted
release in the s ummer . Though  W alt had left most of the pr oduction to
Pearce a nd Leahy , he was unusually involved in the postpro duction—at
least com pared to the of fhanded way he had been treating recent films. He
had asked Pearce and Leahy to air -mail him specific takes for editing, and
after a test screening in early Ja nuary , he ordered them to cut ten to twelve
minutes and provide a more fo rceful musical score; he also ad vised them
that a more detailed criticism would follow . T wo days later he ordered the
editor to fly from England to Los Angeles, apparently so that W alt could
oversee the editing himself.
The finished film, W alt Disney’ s first all-live-action feature, was both a
critical and a financial success—the first in a long, long time. T r easur e
Island  gro ssed $4 mil lion, returning to the studio a profit of between  $2.2
and $2.4 million. Roy , looking to the future, crowed that if “we have a
subject t hat seems to have a world-wide appeal—we have it in T echnicolor
and sell it as a W alt Disney picture,” the studio could safely spend as much
as $1.5  million in negative costs and still have a “reasonably safe
investment.” Th is euphoria led Disney fans to worry , as the animators had,
that Disn ey anim ation was dead, but W alt wrote Douglas Fairbanks, Jr ., one
of those concerned, “W e are not forsaking the cartoon field—it is purely a
move of  economy—again conv erting pounds into dollars to enable us to
make m ore carto ons here.” It was a strange turn. W alt Disney had to make
live-action films now to save his animations.  
As they  were finishing the sho oting, the Disneys suf fered another blow .
Through all the adversity , all the economic ups and downs, they had had
one bedrock: the merchandise division headed by Kay Kamen. Though
W alt oft en micromanaged his studio, he never interfered with Kamen, and
Kamen had repaid the trust by f ollowing a policy as simple as W alt’ s own.
“The pre stige an d dignity of the  name W alt Disney had to be m aintained,”
he wrot e a merchandising repr esentative. “The production of  the Disney
prestige was always more important than any royalties we would get.” The