# Página 27  
This was supposedly how Elias and Flora’ s new baby came to be named
W alter Elias Disney . The story , however , was only partly true. The Disneys’
second son, Ray , may have or iginally been named W alter—that was the
name on his birth registration—before the family reconsidered, which
suggests that the Disneys had thought of the name previously . (The
confusion would  spur rumors la ter on about whether W alt was actually the
Disneys’ natura l-born child, especially since W alt had no birth certificate,
only a baptisma l certificate.*) In addition, though Mrs. Parr and Flora had
indeed been pregnant at the sam e time, with Flora late in her pregnancy and
Mrs. Pa rr early in hers, the Par rs’ baby boy , born the following July , was
named not Elias but Charles Alexander . Not until the birth of another son
two and  a half years later , in May 1904, did the Parrs seem to keep their
part of the bar gain, if there was one, naming the child W alter Elias Parr .
Y oung W alter Elias Disney , fine-featured and golden-haired and favoring
the soft Calls m ore than the flinty Disneys, would not reme mber much
about Chicago. He was scarcely four years old in 1906 when Elias decided
yet agai n to move, though the motive this time was less financial or even
temperamental than moral. T wo  neighbor boys the same ages as Herbert
and Ray and fro m an equally devout St. Paul’ s family had attempted to rob
a c ar barn and h ad killed a policeman during a shootout. T erri fied that his
own boys might be led astray , especially since the neighborhood was
growing rougher , Elias began se arching for a more salubrious e nvironment,
even making a few brief scouting expeditions, before settling on a remote
Missouri town where his brother Robert had recently purchased some
farmland as an investment. In February Elias sold their house  for $1,800
and ano ther pro perty a month la ter . He, Herbert, Ray , and two draft horses
they had bought in Chicago the n went on to Missouri in a box car to ready
the farm while Flora, Roy , W alt, and their new baby sister , Ruth, followed
on th e Santa Fe  train. “That was a big moment when we were going to go
away ,” W alt rec alled years later . “[I]t sounded wonderful to all of us,” Roy
would confirm, “going on a farm.”
II