# Página 159  
creating a visual signal and a soft audio clack. All Edouarde had to do was
watch the ball on the screen and change the tempo of the orchestra when the
tempo of the ball changed. “It worked like clock works,” W alt wrote the
studio st af f ecst atically later that day . “It saved this picture.” W ith the ball
system the entire recording session took only three hours and everything
synchronized beautifully . “It proves one thing to me,” he added. “‘It can be
done perfectly’ and this is one thing that they have all been stumped on.”
The next day he closed another letter to the studio, “All together now—‘Are
we downhearted’? HELL NO. ”  
Once again W alt seemed to hav e averted disaster . But as thrille d as he was
with the  results of the new W illie,  ther e was still one enormous hurdle to
leap, the same o ld hurdle, before he could parlay the film into the revenue
the studio so badly needed: he had to find a distributor . Reinvigorated from
his doldrums, he felt that all they had invested in W illie,  all they had
scraped together , was money well spent because, he insisted, they now had
an anim ation of superior quality , and he firmly believed, as he had with the
Alices, that “[w]e can lick them  all with Quality .” Even before  completing
W illie,  he had an interm ediary approac h Universal, which he knew admired
his p revious work, and he had continued investigating a relationship with
Metro, despite being continually  spurned there. When those ef fo rts failed to
pan out, he accepted an of fer of help from another eager Samaritan: Pat
Powers. W alt’ s admiration for Powers had if anything grown, ev en after the
recording debacle. “What bet ter salesman could we want than P A T
POWERS, ” he  wro te Roy and Ub. Powers, W alt thought, had the clout to
get the “Big Boys” to see the fil m—the very top executives. “I am going to
stick as close to him as I can without getting in his clutches,” he said,
apparently beginning to recognize how insidious Powers could be.
But W al t was already in Powers ’ s clutches. By mid-October Powers had
arranged to have W alt show W illie  t o Univ ersal pr esident Robert Cochrane
and othe r Universal executives, and the reception was enthusiastic. “This is
the original OSW ALD, ” one kept repeating, while others remarked on its