# Página 15  
and the city . An American Everyman, he lived the American experience and
seemed to embody it in his dog gedness, his idealism, his informality , and
his lack  of af fectation, perhaps  above all in his sudden rise fr om poverty
and anon ymity t o the summit of  success. “[H]e emer ged from th e very heart
of the people,” one admirer rhapsodized. “Only so was it possible for him to
respond to our subtlest moods.” Another remarked that “[o]f all the activists
of p ublic diversion, Uncle W alt was the one most precisely in th e American
mainstream.” T he synchronicity between Disney and America would
become his brand. His imagination formed a double helix with the
American imagination.
Obviously Disney’ s work had universal appeal, but in America, with its
almost r eligious belief in possibilities, his ur ge to wish fulfillment was
especially resonant. In both Disney’ s imagination and the American
imagination, one  could assert o ne’ s will on the world; one could, through
one’ s ow n power , or more acc urately through the power of one’ s innate
goodness, achieve success. Indeed, in a typically American formulation,
nothing but goodness and will mattered. Disney’ s best animations —Snow
White a nd the  Seven Dwarfs, Pinocchio, Bambi,  and Dumbo— were
archetypal expre ssions of this i dea. In lar ge measure, they wer e about the
process of a child making his or her claim upon the world, about the process
of overc oming obstacles to become whatever he or she wanted to be.
Similarly , in both Disney’ s imagination and the American imagination
perfection was seen as an attainable goal. In a world that was often
confusing, dang erous, and even tragic, a world that seemed beyond any
individual’ s control, Disney and America both promised not only
dominance but also improvemen t. Disneyland was just a moder n variant on
the old Puritan ideal of a shi ning City on a Hill, as Disney’ s Audio-
Animatronic robots were just a variant on the American dream of making
oneself anew .
The helix between America and Disney was especially tight in the
anxiety-ridden Depression America of the 1930s, when his film s seemed to
capture and then soothe the nati onal malaise. V irtually everyone interpreted
Thr ee Little Pigs  as a Depression allegory , and many others saw in Mickey
Mouse’ s pluck an intrepid Amer ican spirit. But among American critics the