# Página 303  
his staf f for Snow White.  L arson, then tw enty-eight, relu ctantly tried out as
an animator and after two days was hired as an assistant.
W ard K imball, another in this g roup of recruits, had just turned twenty
when he went to work at th e Disney studio in April 19 34. Where
Reitherman and  Larson were e asygoing and agreeable, Kimb all was an
edgy ico noclast and looked the part with a round, manic putty-face, a high
forehead, full cheeks, and an oversize grin. Kimball’ s father h ad been an
itinerant salesman who shuttled  the family from one town to another—
Kimball said that he attended tw enty-two schools—before finally settling in
California when W ard was a te enager . As a child he had been sent by his
parents to live with his widow ed grandmother in Minneapoli s, where he
first beg an draw ing, and when the family relocated out west, he took art
correspondence courses and attended the Santa Barbara School of the Arts.
It was while he  was working his way through school by playing in the
Mickey Mouse Club band at the  local theater that he saw Thr ee Little Pigs,
which “j ust kno cked me out!” A n instructor encouraged him to apply for a
job at the studio , and W ard’ s mo ther of fered to drive him down  from Santa
Barbara for an interview . As Kimball told it, he arrived with his portfolio,
which a pparently no one else had ever done, and when he was asked to
leave it, he said, truthfully , that  he couldn’ t af ford the gas to d rive back to
pick it up. The r eceptionist slipped it to W alt, and Kimball start ed work the
next week. By the time he asc ended from assistant to animator , Kimball
was known for breaking the rules. “He never did what was expected,” wrote
fellow animato rs Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, which is why ,
according to Sharpsteen, W alt e ventually “looked for an opportunity to use
Kimball on something where h e could be an individual and not have to
conform to others.”
The mon th after Kimball started work, Milt Kahl, then twenty-five and
living in northern California, headed to the studio at the suggestion of Ham
Luske, a n old friend who was already one of W alt’ s top animators. Kahl had
had a rough chi ldhood. After his father , a German immigrant, abandoned
the f amily and his mother rema rried, Kahl had disputes with hi s stepfather
and was  forced to quit school to earn money . Like W alt, he foun d an escape
in art. At sixteen he began what would be a string of jobs working in the art