# Página 581  
So the Milottes  shot. They shot for months. They shot, in Milotte’ s
words, “everything that moved”: people cutting timber , catching salmon,
building railroads, climbing Mo unt McKinley , hunting game— more than
100,000 feet of film. The idea, inchoate as it was, was that the  film would
tell a story abou t America’ s last real frontier . Unfortunately , the footage was
precisely what W alt said he had  wanted to avoid: it was boring. “T oo many
mines. T oo many roads. More animals. More Eskimos,” W alt had wired Al
Milotte. T o which Milotte wired back: “How about seals?” W alt  okayed the
couple going to the Pribilof Is lands, which were the mating grounds for
thousands of fur seals. The cou ple stayed for a year—much of the time in
darkness, due to the shortened days at the Arctic Circle—filming the battles
between young unattached males and older bulls, the matings, t he births of
the pups , and the seals’ winter migration to the Pacific Ocean. The only
communication they said they received from W alt as they shipped back
their foo tage was an occasional telegram with the same command: “More
seals.”
Roy had  been right about the na ture documentaries. They did take a long
time and a lot of film to produc e. W alt had conferred with the  Milottes at
the s tudio shortly after the end of the war , and they visited again a year later
with Sharpsteen  in December 1946, while W alt was in Irela nd, though
Sharpsteen said it wasn’ t until a few years later , as the project languished,
that W alt decided to cut the Eskimos altogether and focus exclusively on the
seals. W alt professed not to car e what these cuts did to shorten the film’ s
length. He told Sharpsteen, “[W ]hatever it ran, it ran.” In August 1947,
W alt visited Alaska himself, “to see some of the things first hand and get a
little ide a of Alaska to help him  in making the picture,” Roy said, but also
to spen d some  time with hi s eleven-year -old daughter Sh aron, who
accompanied him as he jumped around the territory . It would be yet another
year before the Milottes’ footage would be edited into what would be called
Seal Island.
Now that the film was finally finished after all these years, RKO, the
Disneys’ distributor , was not interested. W ithout the Eskimos or the story of
Alaskan homesteading, the film was only twenty-eight minutes long—too
short fo r a second feature and too long for a short. RKO saw no way of