# Página 750  
would house animatronic robots  of American presidents. He had  thought as
well of a New  Orleans quarter with a Haunted Mansion, and he had
dispatched Herb  R yman and John Hench to the city to take photographs,
which la ter bec ame models for the attraction. In the summer of 1961 he
introduced costu med characters  to the park as a regular featur e, and early
the following year he announc ed a $7 million expansion that  would add
eight ne w attractions and improve and expand current attractions. The new
construction bro ught the cumulative investment in the park to $ 44 million.
That am ount didn’ t include W alt’ s secretive ef forts to buy additional parcels
of land around t he park, on whi ch he planned to build hotels and motels, a
bowling alley , a campground, and a swimming pool.
As he always ha d on past projects, W alt delegated the running of the park
to subordinates while he remained the chief strategist, and as always he kept
shuf fling the positions whenever he detected that someone was arrogating
too m uch power to himself. But while executives came and went, the park’ s
press agent told a New Y orker  reporter that W alt was clearly in command.
“Y ou never know when you’ll bump into W alt prowling around the park in
an old sweater , checking on whether a dead light bulb he repo rted earlier
has been  replace d,” the agent sa id, “or timing the rides, or complaining that
a ‘R ide Not Operating T oday’ si gn is inartistically lettered, or p lotting what
to tear down nex t and what to put up instead.” And though W alt  did appoint
the O perations Committee to deal with the day-to-day operation of the park
and the Management Committe e, on which he himself sat, to make policy
and set long-ter m goals, the ag ent stressed, “[t]he first thing y ou have to
understand is that this whole place is  W alt.”
By the time W alt installed the Matterhorn, the monorail, and the
submarine ride, the park was attracting over five million visitors a year and
was con sidered one of the essential destinations in the country  for foreign
dignitaries. Prime Minister Jaw aharlal Nehru of India told Los Angeles
mayor Samuel Y orty that the m ain reason he was visiting the area was to
see Disneyland, and Nehru’ s daughter said, “W e looked forward to
Disneyland as much as anything  on our trip.” Nehru spent three hours there.
Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, in extending Indonesian president
Sukarno’ s thanks to W alt after a visit, wrote, “I am told that in Indonesia