# Página 601  
her cloth es, and  cleaned up the  plane after she gor ged herself on Hershey
chocolate bars and got sick. When Diane experienced her first menstrual
period a nd ran to her parents in  shock and confusion, she said  that it was
her father , not her mother , who consoled her .
But as much as he cherished h is girls and enjoyed spending t ime with
them, there was something solitary about him when he wasn’ t at the studio
—something sel f-absorbed and distant. W ith nothing to occupy him, he had
impulsively decided that he was going to hack a path around the perimeter
of h is W oking W ay property , and he spent most of his we ekends the
summer of 1947 blazing what the family jokingly referred to as his “Burma
T rail” after the southeast Asian W orld W ar II supply line—shirtless in the
hot sun,  digging and lifting, pe rspiring profusely , alone in his own world
except f or Sharon, whom he paid to fetch him soft drinks. Lilli an said that
at Smoke T ree s he once caught him out on the terrace acting out a scene on
which h e was working, laughing and talking to himself, so completely
engrossed that he didn’ t notice anyone else. His beloved chow Sunnee had
died—“no other dog could equal that dog,” he would say—but he got a new
dog, a brown standard poodle named Duchess, who followed him around
the house and even accompanied him on his weekend forays to the studio,
where employee s who happened to be there got to know the clip, clip, clip
of her nails on the tile floor . Paul Smith, a composer , said  that when
Duchess heard him playing the p iano, she would bound down the hall to his
room.
If hi s evenings and weekends with Duchess were a measure of W alt’ s
loneliness now that the girls we re growing up and he didn’ t feel the same
sense of  collabo ration at the st udio, so was his time with Hazel Geor ge.
Geor ge was a stocky , plain-faced, tough-talking young woman who had
grown up hardbitten in the Arizona border town of Bisbee, where she
somehow became a ward of the juvenile court, received training as a
psychiatric nurs e, and was advis ed by a counselor to head out t o California
and see if she could get a job, of all places, at the Disney studio. She began
working there as the company nurse during the strike. W alt’ s doctor warned
her , “Y ou’re going to have a hell of a time with him.”