# Página 699  
The broadcast, which was vie wed by an estimated seventy million
Americans, or roughly half t he population, was similarly plagued. It
featured three hosts hopscotching around the park—TV personality Art
Linkletter , who was a friend of W alt’ s and who had visited T iv oli Gardens
with him when W alt was mulling the park; and actors Ronald Reagan and
Robert Cummings—and continually shuttled among them. But cues were
missed, signals were crossed, and mishaps and technical glitches were
telecast. By one account, even before the broadcast the direc tor was so
frazzled he suf fered a breakdow n and wound up orchestrating from a local
hospital. W alt was certainly aware of the chaos. He told Reverend Glenn
Puder , h is niece ’ s husband, whom he had asked to deliver the in vocation at
the o pening, that “things weren ’ t going quite well.” Y et throug h it all W alt
remained remarkably composed and unruf fled. Dressed in a dark suit and a
light silk  tie, his voice hoarse an d his hair touched with gray , he read aloud
the plaq ue tha t declared Disneyland “your land”: “Here age relives
memories of the past. And here youth may savor the challenge and promise
of the future.” Elsewhere he would call it the “happiest place on earth.”
It was certainly that to its creator . Diane, observing her father that day ,
said, “I have ne ver seen a happier man.” Mouseketeer Sharon  Baird said
she was watching the festivities with W alt at his apartment above the Main
Street Fi re Station, and when sh e looked up at him, his hands w ere clasped
behind his back, he was grinning widely , and there was a “tear streaming
down hi s cheek.” But he had never been a man to indulge his pride or rest
on h is la urels. At the end of the day—the longest and quite possibly the best
of W alt Disney’ s  life in spite of the numerous calamities—he an d Linkletter
had dinn er on the patio of the apartment and watched the fireworks display
over the park. Linkletter notic ed that W alt kept taking notes during the
show . A stickler for detail even  amid the pandemonium, he w as counting
the rockets being shot of f to confirm that he was getting the full number .  
Though there were criticisms— one reporter said, “W alt’ s dream is a
nightmare” and called the opening a “fiasco the like of which I cannot recall