# Página 452  
But if, after nearly three years, they had finally licked the narrative
problem of shaping a plot out of a life cycle, one major problem remained,
the one they h ad continually encountered in trying to find  a style of
animation that would fit the m ood of the piece. It was what had made
Bambi  s o intractable from the first. Oll ie Johnston and Frank Thomas wrote
that “W alt was demanding eloquence from images that he hadn’ t even
imagined before. He was no l onger pushing for extra characters, comic
situations, and funny attitudes a s much as feelings and sensations we each
carry away from visiting the deep woods.” Some animators, Johnston and
Thomas reported , had become s o frustrated that they begged of f the project.
The objective was to strike a balance. W alt wanted realism—it was the way
he woul d advan ce animation— but he needed caricature too fo r appealing
personalities. (The characters th at had received the most favorable response
at a sho wing of  the Leica reel s back in September had been the Skunk,
designed by Marc Davis, and the Owl, both of which were broa dly drawn.)
“I’d like to see us find things, you know , that keep us away from just the
naturalistic stuf f—that has a certain amount of fantasy to it,” he told a
meeting as late as February 19 40, reversing direction slightly . T oo much
realism, he had finally come to realize, would be stultifying.
Still tryi ng to find a style that would combine realism and caricature and
taking th eir cue from Davis’ s drawings, Milt Kahl and Frank Thomas had
each animated one hundred feet  of the movie, and on March 1, 1940, they
showed their footage to W alt in room 3C13. It was, Johnston and Thomas
would w rite, “p ossibly the most important day in the history of the film.”
W alt watched the footage, then turned to them, they said, with tears in his
eyes—a highly uncharacteristic gesture from a man who, save f or outbursts
of temper , rarely showed emotion. “That’ s great stuf f—no kidding,” he told
them. And Johnston and Thomas said he added warmly , “It’ s your picture.
Y ou guy s have a feeling for this  picture. Y ou belong to this picture,” which
was no doubt how he had felt about Snow White, Pinocchio,  and Fantasia.
He left the mee ting saying that he trusted the animators to do their own
sweatboxing and even set their own schedule. He was so satisfied he said he
could now take a trip.