# Página 683  
exhibition interests, which the government had ordered them to divest. T o
speed the divestiture, Roy join ed other independent produce rs in a suit
against the studios, but he was not sanguine. “Sometimes I get very blue,”
Roy wrote, “thinking about it all and I have a feeling that continuing down
this road of hig h cost, quality pictures is just a road to bankr uptcy .” The
only sol ution, he felt, was for the best independents to join forces in a
distribution or ganization of their own.
T wo years later Roy hadn’ t acted on his idea but contracted once again
with RKO to release Cinder ella  and Alice in W onderland  a nd to continue
releasing the studio’ s reissues for a 30 percent fee and to distribute the
T rue-Life series , though RKO w as still less than enthusiastic ab out the last.
But RKO was soon in turmoil. The eccentric billionaire industrialist
Howard Hughes  had bought RKO in 1948, siphoned of f the  company’ s
resources, and then put it back o n the market four years later , but not before
he of fered the company to W alt. “They had a lot of liabilities,” Card
W alker , Disney publicity chief at the time, recalled, “and he o f fered them
ten million dollars credit besid es. But W alt said, ‘What do I want that
problem for? I’ve got my own little thing over here. I don’ t n eed another
studio o n my hands.’” (Ironically , W alt said he had also been a sked to take
over the  studio back in 1948 to  thwart Hughes.) Instead, Hughes sold his
studio to a syndicate.
Almost immedia tely the Disneys had trouble with RKO’ s buyers. RKO
had bal ked at distributing the shorts, claiming that it was  no longer
profitable for them. W ithin a few months W alt and Roy were talking with
Jules Stein of MCA, with whom they had already been discussing television
projects, about another scheme to split from RKO. As W alt exp lained it to
Roy after a meeting with Stein, Stein wanted the company to under go a
“complete liquidation and reor ganization…wherein we will be able to
secure a  certain amount of cash for ourselves and still retain co ntrol of the
company .” The  “vital part,” however , was that the Disneys make a
distribution agreement with one  of the major studios under which the major
would fi nance D isney films in return for a percentage of the p rofits. W alt
concurred. “I feel that we have to take care of ourselves per sonally ,” he
wrote R oy , “and  a new releasin g deal is imperative.” Even Ro y , who had