# Página 72  
W alt app roached Al for work, and when Carder complained th at he could
not af ford an art department, W alt made him a proposition: let Iwwerks-
Disney , as the tw o had named th eir partnership (W alt said he ga ve Iwwerks
first bill ing because otherwise it might have sounded like an optometric
practice), do illustrations and lettering for the magazine’ s advertisers; in
exchange they would get free desk space in the News ’ s of fice , which  was
located at Thirteenth and Oak Streets, and ten dollars a page, which was
what Carder was paying his printers to recycle the same old artwork each
issue. Carder agreed.
Now W alt had of fice space, but he needed basic equipmen t—desks,
drawing boards,  an airbrush, and a compressor to run it. The money he had
earned in France was still deposited in Chicago, and he asked his parents to
withdraw the funds and send them so he could make the purchases. But
once again W alt ran aground on his father ’ s frugality . Before agreeing to
release the funds, his parents wanted to know exactly what he would use the
money f or . He answered with indignation, saying that it was his money and
he could do whatever he want ed to with it. There followed a flurry of
letters, b ack and  forth, after whi ch Elias and Flora finally conse nted to send
W alt half his savings—a concession that further loosened his bonds to
parental authority .
W ith th e equipment issue resolved and the partners ensconced in the
Restaurant News  of fi ce, W alt we nt out selling again. When he had arrived
in Kansas City the previous fall, he had reconnected with W alt Pfeif fer .
Pfeif fer now convinced his fath er to let Iwwerks-Disney do the  letterheads
for the United L eather W orkers Journa l.  T hey wound up doing the cov er
for the February  issue as well with an etching of saddles, harnesses, and
gladstone bags. Meanwhile W alt continued to visit printers, of fering to
become a kind o f ad hoc comme rcial art department for them. S ome agreed.
(He especially remembered one  assignment calling for an oil well gushing
dollars. W alt, fired with enthusia sm, said he drew so many dollars that they
filled the  page.) By month’ s end he and Iwwerks were successful enough to
move in to their own of fice in the Railway Exchange Building . W alt said
they made between $125 and  $135 that first month—more than their
combined earnings at Pesmen-Rubin.