# Página 783  
too cost ly and impractical, but he was, if anything, even more devoted to
the idea of his school. When Chouinard mer ged with the L os Angeles
Conservatory of Music in 1962, he named his putative institution the
California Instit ute of the Arts. “He wanted to build that school!” Harrison
Price re called. “ It was the mos t pervasive objective in a man’ s mind that
I’ve eve r run into. He was very  close to the evolution of CalArts, he was
passionate all the way . He sa id, ‘This is the thing I’m going to be
remembered for .’”
W alt was messianic again. A s he had once cornered emp loyees to
discourse on Snow White  and then on Disneyland, now he would corner
them to discourse on CalArts. “I want people to come there that are really
able to do things,” he told animator T . Hee in a long late-night phone call. “I
don’ t wa nt a lot of theorists. I want to have a school that turns out people
that kno w all the facets of filmm aking. I want them to be capable of doing
anything needed  to make a film—photograph it, direct it, design it, animate
it, re cord it.” He told another associate that CalArts would be a place where
“we had  schools  of music, of drama, or cinematography , or da nce, and of
the graphic and applied arts, all  under one roof, as the students walk from
one class to an other , passing art exhibits or students and oth ers, they’re
hearing music, and they’re livin g in dormitories with people th at are all in
the arts. ” He told Alice Davis, Marc Davis’ s wife, that the sc hool would
have a closed-ci rcuit television system “so the students who were studying
fine arts  or illustration could watch and draw the dance students as they
performed,” and he told Marc Davis that he was going to invite Picasso and
Dali to teach. He even suggeste d that he might teach a course himself. “I
don’ t mean teach drawing,  f or God’ s sake! ” he said to Davis modestly . “But
I’m a damn good storyman! I could teach story !”
W alt had always operated on th e principle of renunciation when he felt
that som ething h ad reached its p otential and could not be impro ved, and the
ener gy he had po ured into Disneyland was now being diverted i nto CalArts.
“He was  losing interest in a lot o f the things he’d done before,” Marc Davis
said, “be cause h e was seeing th e new world ahead.” And whi le W alt was
providing the vision, he was already strong-arming contributors , setting up
a trailer on the lot with a model of CalArts that he showed to potential