# Página 234  
cartoon was finished and previe wed, W alt often ordered the staf f back into
the sweatbox for improvements.
The ef fect of the  pencil tests and  Leica reels was not only to upgrade the
quality of Disney cartoons; they altered the very nature of animation.
Before the inauguration of penc il tests animators focused on m aking clean
drawings and tight “in-between s” that would require little revision. The
result, h owever , was a certain in flexibility and rigidity . “Old animation was
done fro m pose to pose without much thought,” said Dick Huemer . “It was
almost l ike it was a flat design . W ithout any weight.” In those cartoons a
character “woul d come to a complete stop and there he’d freeze. And his
eyes would blink. Or his hair would stand up, or whatever . Or if his head
did turn, the res t of him would be stuck there stif fly .” As W alt  said of this
sort of animation, “Y our character goes dead and it looks like a drawing.”
Ub Iwer ks had had a basic command of animation technique s and he
could dr aw actions, but he could never give his characters a se nse of mass
or fluidity of movement. Still, Iwerks had been the exemplar at the studio,
and W alt himself admitted, “The hardest job was to get the guys to quit
fooling around with these indiv idual drawings and to think of the group of
drawings in an action.” W ith Iwerks no longer the guiding light and with
the p encil tests t o aid them, the animators were liberated to experiment, and
they did . When  Norm Fer guson animated Fr olicking Fish  in  1930, W alt
commanded the other animator s to study it because Fer guson had made
certain t hat there was a constan t flow of action. “Soon everybody started
drawing looser ,” another animator recalled. “This opened up more freedom
of m ovement.” Already by 193 1 characters in Disney cartoons no longer
shunted from pose to pose. The y moved smoothly between them, creating
what came to be called “over lapping action,” in which action flowed.
“Overlapping action was an invention of Disney’ s,” Dick Huemer said.
“That’ s why Disney’ s animation looked so dif ferent.”
Disney’ s animations were narratively dif ferent too. All cartoons were
predicated on the gag—a visual  joke or brief comic situation. The gag was
holy and inviolate, the reaso n for the cartoon’ s existence, and most
animation studi os simply linked gags willy-nilly . W alt would send an