# Página 707  
park had proven so successful t hat banks were lending it mone y at rates of
3.75 percent, a significantly lower rate of interest than the one they were
willing to grant for films. Still, even W alt Disney’ s power had limits. He
had aske d Joe Fowler to see if Fowler could provide snow for Main Street
and freeze over the Rivers of America. Fowler politely told him it couldn’ t
be done.
Now that Disneyland was succ essful, there came a reckoning. All the
time that the p ark was being constructed, W alt had had to delegate
authority , primarily to C. V . W oo d, the personable young Oklahoman whom
W alt had  put in char ge of logistics while W alt himself floated above most of
the p ractical concerns. Once Dis neyland was opened, W ood headed a three-
man Op erations Committee that  ef fectively ran the park. But as he had with
John Reeder and Fred Leahy at the studio, no sooner did W alt delegate
power th an he resented the individuals to whom he had granted it. W alt
needed control, especially since  he feared that W ood had begun building a
cadre of  employees who were lo yal to him rather than to W alt. By January ,
W ood w as gone , and W alt anno unced that he would personally assume the
duties of general manager , working directly with a new five-man,
theoretically all-powerful Park Management and Operations Committee that
he, a s the presid ent of Disneyland, had appointed. In ef fect, W alt replaced
W ood w ith him self. When a D isneyland Policy and Planning  Committee
met the next month to determine the park’ s philosophy and set its agenda—
questions like whether it should close during the of f-season o r whether it
should be open only six days a week—there was no doubt who was now in
char ge. W alt Disney , the spiritual leader , had taken temporal command.*
If W alt was beso tted by the par k, he was still resentful at having to play
corporate chief at a studio that was increasingly making film s he didn’ t
particularly care  about, and as he assumed more control of Disneyland, he
yielded more control of W alt Disney Productions. “I feel what’ s wrong
there’ s been too much of me,” W alt told an interviewer to justify his
absence from the studio, and, recalling the words he had used to describe
himself just before his 1931 breakdown, he said, “I have been the slave
driver…. I just sometimes feel like a dirty heel the way I po und, pound,
pound.” He admitted that he was essentially a strategist now , the first and