# Página 25  
He h ad been pre ceded to Chicago by someone who seemed just as blessed
as E lias was cur sed. Robert Disney , Elias’ s younger brother by two-and-a-
half years, was v iewed by the fa mily as the successful one. He was big and
handsome—tall, broad, and fles hy where Elias was short, slim, and wiry ,
and he had an  expansive, voluble, glad-handing manner to  match his
appearance. He was the “real dandy of the family ,” his nephew would say .
But if Robert Disney looked the  very picture of a man of mean s, the image
obscured the fact that he was ac tually a schemer with talents for  convincing
and cajo ling tha t Elias could ne ver hope to match. Six months  after Elias
married Flora, Robert had married a wealthy Boston girl named Mar garet
Rogers and embarked on his career of speculation in real estate, oil, and
even go ld mines —anything he could squeeze for a profit. He had come to
Chicago in 1889 in anticipation of the 1893 Columbian Exposition, which
would celebrate the four -hundredth anniversary of Columbus’ s discovery of
America, and had built a hotel th ere. Elias had also come for the promise of
employment fro m the fair , but his dreams were humbler . Li ving in his
brother ’ s shadow , he was hoping for work not as a magnate but as a
carpenter , a skill he had apparently acquired while laboring on the railroad
in his knockabout days.
The Disneys arrived in Chicago late in the spring of 1890, a few months
after Charles Call’ s death, with their infant son, Herbert, and  with Flora
pregnant again. Elias rented a one-story frame cottage at 3515 South
V ernon on the city’ s south side , an old mid-nineteenth-century farmhouse
now isolated amid much more expensive residences; its chief
recommendation was that it was only twenty blocks from the  site of the
exposition. Construction on the  fair began early the next year , after Flora
had give n birth that December to a second son, Ray . The fam ily enjoyed
few extr avagances. Elias earned only a dollar a day as a carpenter . But he
was indu strious and frugal, and by the fall he had saved enough  to purchase
a p lot of land fo r $700 through his brother ’ s real estate connect ions. By the
next yea r he had applied for a building permit at 1249 T ripp A venue* to
construct a two-story wooden cottage for his family , which the following
June would add another son, Roy O. Disney .