# Página 685  
The case  wasn’ t resolved until 1959, when Douglas finally drop ped the suit.
“It makes me a little sad—that such a thing should exist,” he wrote W alt,
“—because I have nothing b ut pleasant memories of our association
together .”  
As far as ABC’ s Leonard Goldenson was concerned, Disneyland  was the
“turning point” for the network, the point at which it could fina lly begin to
compete with NBC and CBS. It also, as The New Y ork T imes  had
prophesied whe n the ABC con tract was signed, changed the relationship
between Hollyw ood and television. The very next year , 1955, W arner Bros.
and MG M contracted with ABC, and T wentieth Century–Fox with CBS. As
one W arner executive testified , “I am not sure just where th e initiative
started, but as a result of the suc cess Mr . Disney was having w ith a feature
motion p icture c alled 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,  I personally felt that
his abili ty to exploit pictures on  television was of great value, and began to
wonder why we couldn’ t do likewise.”
ABC was so ecstatic with the results of the show that in December
Robert Kintner wrote W alt to exercise the network’ s option on  another of
Cottrell’ s ideas, The Mickey Mouse Club,  and recommended that they meet
the next month to finalize a deal for a five-day-a-week one-hour telecast. As
on Disneyland,  W alt would be given “absolute creative control.” And,
Kintner rhapsod ized, “I believe that in this kid strip, there is the potential
for the highest-rated show in the daytime; for the greatest impact on
children in the h istory of communications; and for the creation of a product
that not only wi ll have the enthusiastic support of parents, Parent T eacher
Associations, etc., but will bring a new dimension to daytime
programming.”
As t empting as the of fer was, the studio had a dif ficult eno ugh time
producing one hour of program ming a week. T o produce five hours, in
addition to Disneyland,  was an incredibly daunting task. By one account
Roy , obviously concerned, had deflected Kintner ’ s entreaties until W alt
came in to the meeting and asked Kintner if he really thought the studio