# Página 602  
In fa ct, s he didn ’ t. W alt needed a confidante, someone he could just talk
to, and Hazel G eor ge became that person. Every day , usuall y after five
o’clock, she would come to his of fice or he would go to hers, where she
administered a diathermy treatm ent or gave him a massage for his polo
injury , and then W alt would s ip a scotch and unwind by unburdening
himself to Hazel. They called th e of fices their “laughing place,” after Uncle
Remus’ s shack in Song of the South —the same description W alt had used
for W alt  Pfeif fe r ’ s home in Ka nsas City , where he had once shared gay
times. There was nothing sexua l about the relationship; in fact, Hazel was
involved with the composer Paul Smith. For W alt, it was strictly a matter of
companionship and confidence, of not having to be W alt Disney . In time it
would be said th at Hazel knew all W alt’ s secrets and that she w as probably
the mos t secure employee in th e studio. But it was more than solace W alt
found in Hazel. He trusted her , no doubt because he knew she was
outspoken, honest, and unintim idatable at a time when he was afraid
everyone else would tell him what they thought he wanted to hear . (Of
course, the employees were engaged in self-preservation precisely because
W alt didn’ t  li ke to be cont radicted.) He would show her storyboards, and
she would render her judgmen ts. She even claimed to have named Seal
Island  and Beaver V alley ,  the T rue-Life Adventure on beavers.
Hazel Geor ge, perhaps better than anyone else including Lillian, knew
that W alt was an xious and aimless, without real animations to engage him.
It was she who suggested he go  to a railroad fair in Chicago, e ven though
he h ad returned from Hawaii only a few weeks earlier . She said he still
needed to relax. Picking up on the idea, W alt mused that W ard  Kimball, a
railroad enthusi ast himself, always seemed relaxed, so he called Kimball
and asked if he wanted to accompany him. They took the Super Chief  from
Pasadena. At one point the president of the Santa Fe Railroad i nvited W alt
and Kimball to ride in the engine and pull the cord to blow the whistle.
Kimball said that W alt pulled long and hard. When they returned to their
car , W al t “just sat there, staring into space, smiling and smiling,” Kimball
recalled. “I had never seen him look so happy .”
W alt rec eived more of the same courtesy once they arrived at the fair , a
general commem oration of the building of the railroads in Am erica. The