# Página 102  
nights with restless sleep, throu ghout the constant begging for funds from
Cowles and Schmeltz and even Roy , throughout it all W alt Disney seemed
never to  lose faith. “I never once heard W alt say anything that would sound
like defeat,” Kloepper remembered. “He was always optimistic…about his
ability and about the value of his ideas and about the pos sibilities of
cartoons in the entertainment field. Never once did I hear h im express
anything except determination to go ahead.” Phineas Rosenber g, the
attorney who handled the bank ruptcy , concurred. “Most people filing for
bankruptcy are disturbed or bitter ,” he said. “W alt wasn’ t.”
He seemed confident beyond a ny logical reason for him to be so. It
appeared that nothing could discourage him. In later years he would say that
he was constitutionally imperturbable, free of doubt, and happy—always
happy . “I have no recollection o f ever being unhappy in my life,” he once
said. “I was happy all the time. I was excited. I was doing thing s.” But this
was also  for show . Though W alt normally did possess a kind of intrepid
faith, a child’ s faith that things would turn out right, which e xplains his
doggedness and  his myopia, at the time of the Laugh-O-Gram bankruptcy ,
at the age of twenty-one, he was less unaf fected than he may h ave seemed
or want ed others to think. H e was, he later admitted, “crushed and
heartbroken”—crushed at having failed and heartbroken at having
disappointed so many who had trusted in him and had lost money for their
trust: “That first big setback got me right down and out.” He swore he
would make good and pay the c reditors back. At the same time he said that
the Laug h-O-Gram bankruptcy had left him tougher , more determined, and
inured to failure.
Now he thought only of leavin g Kansas City , leaving the failure. He
considered goin g to either New Y ork or Hollywood, then settled on the
latter , w here Roy was now re cuperating and where Uncle Robert had
relocated. He needed to leave. He would visit Union Station and “stand
there with tears in my eyes and look at the trains going out…I was all alone.
I wa s ve ry lones ome.” He still had no money—he lived now a t Iwwerks’ s
house or  with the Cowles family—but he did have a contact: C arl Stalling,
the or ganist at the Isis Theater , in the same building to which Laugh-O-
Gram had moved before its coll apse. Through Stalling W alt managed to get