# Página 705  
studio, and just as he had living quarters of f his of fice at Burban k, he had an
apartment over the fire station at Disneyland; it was decorated in red velvet,
lace, and brocades to resemble a late-nineteenth-century home. One
employee said she would occas ionally see him standing at the window of
the apa rtment, as he had on opening day , crying, mov ed by the
achievement.  
After al l the doubts that the networks, his staf f, his brother , a nd even his
wife had harbored about Dis neyland, W alt had been vindicated. The
opening-day fias co notwithstanding, the park was an instant triumph. In its
first week it tal lied 161,657 visitors, and by the end of the month it was
attracting well over twenty th ousand attendees each day—o ver a half-
million visitors in all after four weeks of operation. In August n early half of
all tourists to Southern California visited Disneyland, it was estimated, and
the p ark welcomed its one-mill ionth guest by the end of September . In its
first year it would attract 3.6 million visitors. By the end of its second year
it would  greet four million more guests, for a 13 percent increase—25,000
on t he second a nniversary alone. It would receive its ten-millionth visitor
less than two and a half years a fter its opening, by which time  it exceeded
the Grand Canyon, Y ellowston e Park, and Y osemite Park a s a tourist
attraction.
And for the first time in nearly seventeen years—since the wake of Snow
White —W alt Disney Productions was  flush. Each adult visitor to the park
paid a one-dollar admission; each of the children, fifty cents. In addition,
they paid anywhere from ten to twenty-five cents for individual attractions.
Parking at the twelve-thousand-car lot cost an additional twenty-five cents.
That October , because some guests objected to the dollar admission, and
because lar ger attractions like th e Jungle Cruise and the Mark T wain  were
drawing a disproportionate shar e of riders, publicist Ed Ettinger suggested
of fering along with the admissio n a booklet of eight tickets—dif ferentiated
by A , B , and C attractions, from the least to the most sophisticated—for a
single p rice of $2.50 for adults and $1.50 for children. The o riginal plan