# Página 59  
been “d isgusted” by his year at McKinley , though he had no plans to do
anything else either . W alking al ong the beach with Bea Conov er one day ,
W alt had  asked her whether he s hould buy a movie camera or a canoe with
his post of fice savings, and when she said a canoe, he was “disappointed”
and mad e a down payment on th e camera anyway . He began hav ing himself
filmed in the alley behind his parents’ house as Chaplin, with his friend
Russell Maas presumably turning the crank, and then hatched  a plan for
making children ’ s films. But bef ore he could realize the project, the camera
was repossessed.
Y et even as he dabbled in entertainment, he had gotten the war bug. T wo
of his brothers were already in the service; Ray had been draf ted into the
army , and Roy , an enlistee, was at the Great Lakes Naval Station outside
Chicago. W alt later said he had felt the full flush of patriotism w hen he was
seeing Roy of f at the train depot in Chicago during a visi t early that
summer , and the of ficer , mistak ing W alt for one of the troops, o rdered him
to fall in. The f eeling only intensified when he read Roy’ s le tters. “They
were blowing bugles and it was more of what you call patr iotism,” he
would recall. “I just had to get  in there.” Though he was underage, only
sixteen, W alt admitted a sense  of shame in his staying home as others
marched of f to war; he told Ruth that he never wanted his gran dchildren to
ask him  why he did not go to f ight. And one could not under estimate the
unmistakable ap peal of the uni form itself. W alt, who had been  a cadet at
McKinley as well as a postman, a gateman, and a train butcher in a suit with
brass buttons, loved to dress in  costumes. As he said of Roy , “He looked
swell in that sailor ’ s uniform.”
Even before he went to work at the post of fice, W alt had atte mpted to
join the navy w ith Maas, but they were rejected for being too young. Next
they trie d to join the Canadian forces, but Maas, who wore g lasses, was
rejected for his poor eyesight, and W alt did not want to go into the service
without him. Dejected, they had  both applied to the post of fice, where they
found themselve s dunned every noon by a fife-and-drum corps outside in
the street ur ging men to enlist. It was Maas who got the idea to join the Red
Cross A mbulance Corps, since the Red Cross was not as particular as the
armed forces and the age of qualification was seventeen, not eighteen as in