# Página 91  
$15,000, about half of which w as cash and equipment, divided into three
hundred shares valued at $50 each. W alt took seventy and parceled out
smaller numbers of shares to a few friends and to his young associates. Still,
he h ad t o secure the rest of the money , several thousand dolla rs after the
broker ’ s substantial cut, to rent an of fice and studio, pay the staf f, and buy
supplies.
The challenge was for someone  so young and with only the Laugh-O-
grams to his credit to attract investors. W alt Disney was certainly persuasive
—“quite a salesman,” Rudy Is ing said. He was boyish, enthu siastic, and
garrulous and had a way of filling one with enthusiasm too as h e described
his plans, which he loved to do, as his nights with the Francises attested. He
had to be persuasive since the probable success of the enterprise for which
he w as s oliciting funds, run by a  young man with no manageria l experience
who employed younger men with even less experience, was by any measure
a long shot. Roy contributed s ome money—and kept contrib uting thirty
dollars here and there from his  disability checks—but W alt Disney’ s real
angel at  Laugh- O-Gram was a well-connected Kansas City doctor named
John V . Cowles.
W alt had probably met Cowles through another flamboyant speculator ,
W alt’ s u ncle Rob ert, with whom Cowles was very likely associa ted in an oil
refinery scheme for which the doctor himself was seeking inve stors at the
time. T a ll and heavyset, with a t hick shock of hair that turned snow white as
he aged and with  a pronounced limp that was the result of a riding accident,
possibly incurre d during a brie f stint at W est Point, Cowles was both an
ostentatious figu re in Kansas C ity and a prominent one. He had been born
there an d had attended the University of Missouri and then the university’ s
medical school. He returned home to build a lucrative pr actice as a
sur geon/general practitioner; Thomas Pender gast, the head of the city’ s
notorious Democratic political machine, and Harry T ruman, later U.S.
senator and president, were amo ng his patients and friends. His success was
evident in his la r ge of fice downtown above the Main Street Bank and in his
palatial home on Thirty-fourth Street.