# Página 757  
W alt wa s excite d. At ABC he had ef fected the truce between  the film
industry and the television ind ustry . At NBC he would be leading the
transformation from black-and-white to color television. Creatively
speaking, after being forced to make those W esterns at ABC , NBC had
given him carte blanche. “I sho uldn’ t have listened,” he told o ne reporter
about h is surrender to ABC. “I’m not listening now . I’m an absolute
dictator about what goes into my show .” “I never saw such a n overnight
change in a man,” said a friend of W alt after the NBC contract.  “Where he
had been preparing the ABC programs almost automatically like a man in a
dream, a ll of his old enthusiasms returned…. [O]ne new idea after another
tumbled out of him. He kept saying over and over again, ‘Oh  boy! Color
and no W esterns. I can do wh atever I want. Do you hear me? I can do
whatever I want.’”
“Newton Minow  can relax,” op ined the New Y or k Heral d T ribune  after
W onderful W orld  of Color ’ s Su nday night premiere on Sep tember 24, 1961,
referring to the Federal Communications Commission chairman who had
recently called television a “vast wasteland.” “Here, for a wonderful
change, was something out of Hollywood that contributed to the
enlightenment and thorough enjoyment of the entire family .” Most
reviewers agreed , with only a few dissenters carping that W alt had pushed
color tel evision a little too aggr essively . But that, of course, h ad been the
whole p oint. Sho rtly after the pr emiere Card W alker , who was n ow the head
of advertising at the studio, wrote W alt that sales of color televisions were
soaring—105 pe rcent ahead of t he previous September . NBC couldn’ t have
been happier . When W alker and  Donn T atum, the head of television sales,
met Kin tner in New Y ork that  November , they reported that the “whole
atmosphere is pleasing and on a high note” and that Kintner wanted to
discuss other series. W ithin the month NBC renewed W onderful W orld  for
an additional two years.
II
W alt wa s a changed man yet again. Despite his ef forts to portra y himself as
ordinary—and despite the fact that in many ways he was  ordinary ,