# Página 464  
visited t he studi o, played the pie ce for W alt while a translator narrated, and
told him  that he had written it e xpressly for the purpose of having Disney
animate it. Now W alt intended to.
But already that January , with  his early fervor perhaps dam pened by
some of the criti cal brickbats hurled at Fantasia,  W alt was raisin g the issue
of costs. As muc h as he wanted to make “V alkyries,” he told his  staf f that it
depended on whether they coul d make it within budget. “If we can’ t do it
for a set figure,” he said, “then  we better for get it.” Similarly , discussing
Sibelius’ s The Swan of T uonela,  W alt suggested that they photograph a
model o f a swan and animate th e ripples in the water . “[W]e don’ t have to
be m aking every drawing of th at swan—which costs,” he told the crew ,
sounding very unlike himself. Discussing a sequence of T chaikovsky’ s
“Humoresque,” featuring the m ushrooms from the “Nutcracker” segment,
he advis ed that the animators rep eat cycles of action to save money and that
of six mushrooms three replicate the actions of the other three so the
animators would only have to trace the actions for one set rather than
animate all six from scratch.
By this time the heady excitement over the Fantasia  returns had begun to
deflate too. The Fantasound sys tem, upon which W alt insisted, w as proving
prohibitively expensive, forcing the studio to exceed its loan lim it from the
Bank of America and preventing  the film from being exhibited more widely
and taking in more receipts. “It is my opinion that it is positively not in the
cards for us to continue using Fantasound,” Roy wrote W alt that April, in
what he must have realized would be a crushing blow . “I don’ t think there is
another spot in the country that will warrant the costs.” Meanwhile, in a
defeat o f his own, Roy was me eting with RKO head Geor ge Schaefer to
discuss R KO’ s taking over the film’ s general release, though ins isting that it
continue to be e xhibited on a roadshow basis with reserved sea ting, “down
to the smallest town that can possibly stand such a show .”
RKO di d continue to distribute Fantasia  t hat spring as  a roadshow
attraction, and RCA engineers even devised a modified sound system that
was les s costly than Fantasound and thus could be installed in more
theaters. But the handwriting was on the wall. T o put it into even wider