# Página 462  
Y et for all his a lleged objection s at the time, Stravinsky return ed to the
studio o n Octob er 12, 1940, to see the final cut, after which, he said, he
stormed out. The studio’ s version, once again, was dif ferent. When W alt
suggested that Stravinsky v isit the animators, W oolie Reitherman
remembered the m laughing and joking while the track of The Rite  of Spring
played b ackward on the Movieola. “Doesn’ t sound bad backwards either ,”
Stravinsky quipped. Stravinsky returned to the studio yet again  on October
23 to  dis cuss the  possibility of h aving the studio animate “Renard,” an old
piece of his, an d wound up sel ling the rights to that, Fir eworks,  and The
Fir ebir d.  “Doesn ’ t sound as if he’ s very sore, does it?” W alt remark ed
wryly to the Los Angeles T imes.*
Despite the carping about its pretensions, its naïve misunderstanding of
the mus ic, and its fascistic bru tality , Roy was more than satisfied with
Fantasia ’ s initial returns. “WILL FINISH THIS WEEK WITH TWENTY
SEVEN THOUSAND [DOLLARS],”  he wired W alt from New Y ork after
the second week. “ALL N IGHTS HA VE BEEN  SELLOUTS AND
MONDA Y TUESDA Y WEDNESDA Y MA TINEES ABOUT  EIGHTY
PERCENT .”  W ith expenses at $1 1,000 a we ek, Roy thought the prospects
were “VER Y SOLID AND ENCOURAGING.”  In its first sixteen weeks at
the Broadway , where the demand was so great the theater had to add eight
telephone operators to handle the calls and rent an adjoining store for the
walk-up advance sales, it grossed more than $300,000. It netted  more than
$20,000 each of its first ten weeks both at the Majestic Theater in Boston
and at the Carthay Circle, and i t had netted nearly as much after only five
weeks a t the Geary Theater in S an Francisco. Meanwhile Roy was pressing
RCA to  deliver Fantasound systems to the other first-run theaters so they
could broaden the release. “I se e no reason why we should not be able to
get our full nega tive cost back b y the end of 1941,” he wrote W alt gleefully .
“W e may do better than that.”
Even be fore he knew the outcome, W alt had been planning a se quel, and
as early as May 1940 he met wi th Stokowski to discuss it. At the time both
were nearly giddy with enthusiasm, mulling over Richard Strauss’ s T ill
Eulenspiegel,  B rahms ’ s First Symphony , Respighi’ s The Pines of Rome,
Holst’ s The Planets,  and  even Gers hwin’ s jazz symphony Rhapsody in