# Página 239  
W alt Disney would be credited—and often criticized as well—for
bringing greater realism to animation; and he almost single-handedly broke
the long-standin g tradition, to which he himself had once su bscribed, of
self-reflexive cartoons in which one saw the animator ’ s hand, in favor of a
new aesthetic in which the cart oon world was presented as sel f-contained.
But the visual realism he en couraged was actually a product of the
psychological a nd emotional realism he demanded, not a s ource. W alt
wanted a credible visual field for his more credible animated characters in
order to for ge that emotional bond with the audience—an animated universe
he c alled the “ plausible impos sible” that stretched natural laws without
breaking them entirely .
As a  result of this new imperative and of the analysis of scenes through
pencil tests, Disney animators b egan to abandon the prevailing, tried-and-
true style of ani mation disparagingly named “rubber hose,” wh ich forsook
realism and its d if ficulties for ease of drawing. In “rubber hose”  animation,
when th e shape of a figure or an  object changed, so would its volume, as if
it were made of rubber . There was no consideration of gravity or weight.
This bothered W alt. He felt t hat the lack of realism compr omised the
psychological and emotional reality of the characters and snapped the
emotional bond to the viewer . “As W alt began to bear down a little bit on
making his characters believable,” Jackson said, “all this [rubber hose] had
to go .” N ow gravity entered the  cartoon world for the first time, and so did
“secondary actions,” or the response of things like hair and clothes and
leaves to  gravity . Prior to Disney , Dick Huemer recalled, “[n]o one thought
of cloth ing following through, sweeping out, and dropping a few frames
later , wh ich is what it does natur ally .” At the Disney studio, ever yone began
to think of these things, and the force of gravity became an obsession.
Among the many signs that hun g on the animators’ walls was one that read:
“Does your drawing have weight, depth and balance?”  
Sometimes, however , the anima tors simply were not good enough. T o meet
the new standards for realism, th ey knew they had to improve their skills. “I