# Página 598  
At long  last the studio seemed to regain some of its fire. “ Cinder ella
really brought back the good feeling with a bang there,” Ben Sharpsteen
said. Mi lt Kahl cited a degree of  euphoria now that the animators were back
working on something “importa nt.” But it was soon clear that Cinder ella
was not Snow White,  at least not in th e way it was produced, and for a film
that was  meant to be the studio’ s salvation, it received little of the attention
that the early fea tures had had la vished upon them. W alt was so reluctant to
take any chances (the sort of  chances he had taken on Snow White,
Pinocchio, Fantasia,  and Bambi ) that early in 1948 he had the entire film
shot in live act ion on the soun dstage with actors mouthing the dialogue
track. The aim w as not to provid e film to rotoscope, as the studio had done
in the past, but, Frank Thomas recalled, “to see whether the scenes were
going to  work. W ould they be  too long? T oo short? W ill it hold your
interest?” This footage was then edited and sent to the animators on lar ge
photostat sheets  to duplicate. The problem, said Thomas, was that the
animators were not allowed to imagine anything that the live action did not
present, since that kind of expe rimentation might necessitate changes and
cost extra money—an approach that ef fectively defeated the purpose of
animation and gave validity to the old criticisms that W alt Disney was too
beholden to realism. The animators were even instructed to d raw from a
certain directorial perspective—head-on—to avoid dif ficult shots and
angles. Thomas said he felt that “your feet were nailed to the floor .”
Moreover , the style of the animation was dif ferent; it was in the new ,
sharper , flatter , more minimalis t Disney mode. As W alt adm itted to one
prospective artist who recommended a florid approach, the drawings “have
to be done with a great deal of s implicity .” In fact, W alt was so  determined
that Cinder ella  not rese mble Snow White  visu ally that he  asked his oneti me
artist M ary Bla ir to return to design the characters, which she did in a
delicate, almost  greeting-card fashion—against which, Ben Sharpsteen
claimed, the animators rebelled.  Whole scenes were reimagined too, to cut
the d etail and th e cost of anima ting that detail. Harry T ytle sug gested that
during t he ballroom scene the other dancers dissolve into t he faces of
Cinderella and the Prince so that the dancers wouldn’ t have to b e animated,
and he further su ggested that the coach in which Cinderella rides to the ball
seem to float in the air so tha t the animators could avoid drawing the