# Página 523  
“[I]f we ever hit  upon an angle that seems right for production, we’ll get in
touch with you.” He never did.
V
Even as  the studio was alm ost totally devoted to war output, one
commercial feat ure was still slowly making its way through p roduction, a
relic of a time th at now seemed so long ago: Bambi.  All through the strike
and after America’ s entrance in to the war , thirty-five to forty  employees
continued to toil away , thoug h even with another small infusion of
$150,000 from the Bank of America, W alt had had to economize on the
picture. Some scenes were cut, others were changed to place c haracters in
silhouette where they wouldn ’ t have to be fully animated, camera
movements wer e simplified, final cleanup tests were being sent directly for
inking, a nd the inking was less precise. When W alt advised Frank Thomas
that ther e would n’ t be any pict ure if they didn’ t drastically cu t costs and
Thomas began tearing up, W alt bent over him and said, “Frank, I know it
hurts yo u, but dammit, it’ s got to go, that’ s all there is to it.”  T o another
director who lamented after W alt ordered cuts that they would  be “losing
something,” W alt said, “Y ou’re telling me what you’d be losing. Here I am,
sitting here, losing my shirt, and  you’re telling me what you’d  be losing.” In
the end W alt ha d no choice but to cut scenes wholesale, slashing the film
from 8,5 00 feet to 6,259 feet. “There was not much excitement or the usual
thrill of completion during the last days of Bambi,”  Frank Thomas and
Ollie Johnston would later confess, “but finally it was finished.”
Bambi,  whi ch h ad cost over $1.7 million even after the cuts, would need
to return $2.5 million to break even, but the early signs were not
encouraging. The studio had missed its tar get preview date in December
1941 because W alt decided to add lyrics to some of the songs, and when the
film was finally previewed in P omona the following February , a teenager
shouted after Bambi’ s mother ’ s death and Bambi’ s calling out for her ,
“Here I am, Bambi!,” breaking the film’ s spell. “The ride back to Burbank
was even quieter than the ride out had been,” Thomas and Johnston wrote.
It seeme d a harbinger . The postp onements had hurt the publicity campaign,