# Página 759  
only eig hty bowling lanes but a swimming pool and restaurant—a model
for a  new  kind of Disney franchise. Once again, though, the proj ect dragged
on, and by the time Celebrity Lanes opened in September 1960, W alt had
resigned from the board. W a lt Disney Productions filled the breach,
purchasing a $277,000 stock interest and floating a $650,000 loan within
the year  to take control of the ce nter . W alt and Lillian attended the center ’ s
second a nniversary , and the company kept it operating even as it drained
money . Roy later admitted the entire project had been ill-conceived. “W e
wasted a million dollars there by putting in a deluxe dining room and a
swimming pool ,” he told one interviewer . “W e had 80 lanes,  one of the
biggest bowling alleys in the co untry…. But who wants to bowl in a wet
bathing suit and what bowler wears the kind of clothes that ar e necessary
for a deluxe dining room?”
But even  as Celebrity Lanes wa s gasping for life, W alt had not lost his
monumentalist impulses. Inspired by his experience with the W inter
Olympics, he enlisted Harrison Price, the man who had found the site for
Disneyland, to investigate possibilities for a family-oriented ski lodge–
entertainment facility . Price discovered that southern California had one
skier per hundred people. “The data pointed out a crying need for good
skiing in the va st active, athletic, mobile southern California market,” he
later said. Price surveyed the M ammoth Mountain area, roughly  forty miles
northwest of Bishop, California,  located in the Inyo National Forest, and he
and Mickey Clark, a Disneyland executive whom W alt had char ged with
analyzing the prospects, determined that the “government looks favorably
upon any development that tend s to enhance the beauty of the pa rk and give
additional recre ational facilities to the public.” But Price thought he had
found a better candidate in the Mineral King area, south of Mammoth inside
the S equoia National Forest, an d he and W alt immediately beg an pressing
state legislators to provide a h ighway to the location. While that project
wended its way through the go vernment bureaucracy , W alt w as about to
buy 2,200 acres outside Aspen , Colorado, when the deal su ddenly fell
through because the seller raised his asking price.
In the eyes of many developers, and in his own eyes as well, W alt Disney
had become a magical force, and  the company made dozens of forays—and