# Página 324  
whole st ory may be in five minutes. He was so enthused about it.” Joe Grant
said he drove th e staf f crazy . “E very time he’d come into a room where the
storyboards were, he’d tell the w hole story of the film over again, from the
beginning to the end, to make sure nobody got anything wrong.” Grant said
he must have heard these performances three or four dozen times, but each
was slig htly dif ferent. Each time W alt would incorporate something new
from the continuities, some sma ll bit of business that one of the writers or
animators might  have added, so that he was constantly revising and refining
verbally . As Sharpsteen described it, “Whether he used the idea in total or
greatly modified, the idea had to become part of him.”
Some of his contributions were conceptual. It was W alt who decided that
the woo ds into which Snow White escapes should be alive and foreboding:
“It would be goo d for her [Snow  White] to be caught in the bushes showing
these grotesque hands, then the wind and all the things that frighten her .
Have it lead to things that make her think things are alive, but at the same
time the audience should have a  feeling that it is all in her mind…. Like the
thorns changing  back from hands to thorns.” Some were dramatic. Of the
scene in  which the Queen’ s huntsman is about to kill Snow W hite before
her innocence shames and conv erts him, W alt suggested that S now White
bend over to tend to a sick bab y bird. “[S]he is stooped over which gives
you a swell position for the knife in the back,” he suggeste d. “Let the
menace come in there where she  kissed the bird and the bird pe rked up and
flew aw ay—it has a connection for the Huntsman to soften.” Others were
psychological. H e was always th inking not only of what would work on the
screen b ut how the characters would feel. It must be Grumpy , W alt decided,
who crie s when he finds Snow  White comatose from eating the poisoned
apple while the others’ eyes jus t mist up: “Let him break right down. Hard
exterior , soft inside.” Still other contributions were minute details, some of
which were debated endlessly . In the scene in which the dwarfs return to
their cottage and realize that someone may be lurking inside, should a pair
of em pty shoes into which frogs had leaped chase Dopey , run past him, or
keep in step with him? (In the fi nal version, it was none of these.) Even so,
W alt proclaimed , “I like good comedy stuf f, but I think we will have to tie
the shoe s in dif ferently…our co ntinuity as a whole is more important than
one gag. ” And once done, nothing was too small for correction. W atching a