# Página 513  
government of fi cials there to ce ntralize all film production in Hollywood,
with a special unit to be estab lished at the Disney studio. “ Maybe the
development above will be the answer to our problem,” W alt  wrote Kay
Kamen hopefull y . As it turned out, the of ficials guarded their  power too
jealously to cede any authority to a central or ganization, but with Kay
Kamen aggressively soliciting government agencies and defense contractors
for film s, the Disney studio found itself at the vortex of government
activity . W ithin weeks after Pearl Harbor the films for the navy on warship
identification were in production; the Department of Agriculture had
contracted for a film promoting the Lend Lease program; the Council of
National Defens e had commissioned a series of posters for a campaign
cautioning Americans not to divulge sensitive information; and  the director
Frank C apra, who had been appo inted a major in the Army Signal Corps for
the p urpose of e xpediting produc tion, met with W alt to convince  him to join
the Sign al Corp s. W alt declined, saying that if Capra needed him, he had
only to make a  request for th e studio’ s services. Capra did, and W alt
provided animation for Capra’ s Why W e Fight series that explained why
America had gone to war . At th e same time that W alt was wading through
these of fers, the coordinator ’ s of fice was pressing the studio to produce a
new ser ies of educational films on health and agriculture and yet another
series th at would , as Whitney put it, “deal directly with the Axis menace to
freedom in Latin America.” Moreover the studio was inundated by requests
from military squadrons for insignia, which it did its best to satisfy by
setting u p a five-man crew , even though there was no remuneration for the
service.
Nor did it stop there. W alt had personally lobbied with Lieuten ant J. C.
Hutchinson, wh o headed the naval film program, and wound up with
contracts for films that spring on aerology , meteorological conditions,
aircraft carrier landing signal s, carrier approaches and qualifications,
aviation forming methods, fixed gunnery , and finally one called Rules of the
Nautical Road.  Meanw hile, under pressure to diversify from the Bank of
America and Kidder , Peabody , which had issued the Disney stoc k, W alt was
meeting with executives from the aircraft manufacturers Cur tiss-W right,
Lockheed, Beec h, and Aeronca about the possibility of mak ing training
films for them. “There is nothing at the moment more imp ortant than