# Página 694  
dictated that the rides be housed  in prefabricated industrial sheds festooned
with medieval pennants. The Canal Boats of the W orld, which were
supposed to drift past miniature landmarks and then were later
reconceptualized as transport through a Storybook Land of fairy-tale
scenes, drifted past scrub and brush because W alt couldn’ t af fo rd to finish
the attraction. Bill Evans had landscaped the park lar gely with indigenous
trees that had been uprooted by highway construction, but even then W alt
didn’ t h ave eno ugh money to finish the job and instructed Evans to put
Latin names on the weeds, as if they were specimen plants. “T oward the
opening,” Evans said, “we did a  lot of irrigating to get the weeds  to grow on
the barr en areas, particularly on the high dirt berm that surrounded the
Park.” It was just another illusion.
The final illusion was the staf f that was hired to man the park. W alt didn’ t
want the m to spoil his fantasy , so he instituted what he called the “Disney
University” to train them. “[W]e don’ t hire for jobs here,” the training
program’ s head, V an Arsdale France, told a reporter , in keepi ng with the
theme that this was not a park but a set, “so much as we cast for parts,
especially the onstage roles—tic ket takers, ride operators, tour guides.” As
a Disney  trainin g manual would say , “[Y]ou can’ t go on stage unless you
are s et to  give a pleasant, happy performance.” W alt demanded that the cast
be b oth cheerful and presentable , and though dress at the studio had always
been casual and W alt himself obviously had a mustache, Disneyland
employees had to observe a strict dress code, and an edict that forbade
facial h air . One employee, the first manager of Adventureland and
Frontierland, felt that W alt didn’ t particularly like him because he was
heavy . “W alt doesn’ t like fat guys,” the man said.
There w as also a question as to whether W alt liked minorities working at
the park. The s tudio had never overtly discriminated. There were some
Asians, like T y W ong and Bob Kuwahara, in prominent positio ns, but very
few African-Americans—the old strikers would say because W alt had an
antipathy toward blacks. This may have just been another example of the
strikers’ antipath y toward W alt, who never expressed even a hin t of racism.
But he, or some one at the company , may have felt that Africa n-American
cast mem bers w ould have spoiled the illusion at Disneyland, sin ce as late as