# Página 80  
still lar g ely its novelty that held the appeal, though that appeal w as waning.
“W e got very f ew laughs,” Huemer added. “I can remember  taking my
family to see some bit of animation I was particularly proud of, and just as
it went on, somebody behind me said, ‘Oh, I hate these things.’”
But if very lit tle visual or narrative craft was involved, a nimation
nevertheless had a powerful subtext that would slowly emer ge and at least
subliminally resonate with the public, a subtext of which the first animators
themselves may  not even have been aware. Most had come to a nimation as
a lark—typically a way to take advantage of the movie boom for financial
gain. Their “distinctive features,” as one eminent animation historian
described this pioneering grou p, were a “background in journalism, a
compulsion to sketch, ‘workaholic’ tendencies, and a well developed but
idiosyncratic se nse of humor .” Except for the journalism exp erience, for
which he had once so achingly yearned, W alt Disney certainly fit this
characterization. But W alt’ s growing attachment to animation seemed to be
impelled by something beyond the inertia from print to film that ostensibly
motivated so many other animators, or the prospect of money , or the
technological appeal of the medium, or the possibility of succ ess, or even
the a ttention it m ight get him—all of which may have been the initial lures.
W alt Disney also had a psychological connection to animation, a connection
for ged by his childhood experiences.
The proc ess of animation was a process of giving life, of litera lly taking
the inan imate an d making it animate. It was, at base, a hubristic process in
which the animator assumed and exercised godlike control over his
materials, which was why it also of fered a feeling of empowerment to its
viewers who sensed the control. In W alt Disney’ s case the sur ge of
empowerment w as so great one might even have concluded tha t animation
took the  place of religion for him, since in his adulthood he sho wed little or
no i nterest in formal religion  and never attended church. Indeed, the
animator created his own world—an alternative reality of his imagination in
which the laws of physics and  logic could be suspended. T hough W alt
Disney could never fully artic ulate why he was attracted to  animation,
falling back instead on vague generalities, it always had these two great and
unmistakable blandishments. For a young man who had chafed within the