# Página 544  
had acquired before the war in the glow of Snow White ’ s success. At the
same time he told columnist Hedda Hopper that he planned to increase
shorts production and, with his war experience, move into educational and
industrial films, if only , he admitted, to keep his staf f active. H e was even
investigating a Disney radio program again.
The war had b oosted audiences and generated profits for the film
business general ly , if not for W alt, and though W alt believed that once the
war was over the “motion pictu re business was gonna be really hit in the
jaw ,” he  was nevertheless pract ically manic at the prospect of making real
movies again.* “I think  we have a great future  ahead of us,” he wrote Lee
Blair , who had w orked at the studio with his wife, Mary , before Blair joined
the serv ice, “an d we have some  marvelous plans with some g ood stuf f in
work tha t will be out during the  coming year…. [T]here’ s no doubt in my
mind that when better cartoons are made, you know where  they’ll be
made!” T o another corresponden t he said that he was devoting his facilities
“100% toward building up our inventory so we can get the company on a
profit ba sis,” ad ding, “with the old profits rolling in, you’re in a position to
experiment and do the thing you want.”
After the four years just past, doing what he had been doing before the
war wasn’ t enough. If only to demonstrate that he was not passé, W alt
wanted, needed,  t o do somethi ng new , something dif ferent, something
unusual. Sometime early in 1944, he had seen a book of surrealist paintings
by t he Spanish-born artist Salv ador Dali lying on animator M arc Davis’ s
desk, and he asked Davis if he could take it home. That Feb ruary W alt
wrote D ali requesting an autograph on a copy of his own and suggesting a
collaboration. It  was an incongruous combination—the plainspoken, down-
to-earth midwesterner and the eccentric Dali—and W alt’ s brush mustache
versus D ali’ s thi n, lacquered, loopy one was a visual representation of that
incongruity . But  Dali, who happ ened to be in southern Californi a at the time
of W alt’ s note, responded enthusiastically , calling a possible joint venture
“unique, of ‘the never seen’!” They didn’ t meet until June,  when Dali
visited t he studio and lunched with W alt, and they didn’ t close a deal until
November , but by this time th ey had been meeting and co rresponding
frequently . Dali  said he was finishing a synopsis of a short based on a