# Página 96  
than pay ,” he recalled. “Y ou didn’ t look at it as work.” Adolp h Kloepper
spoke of the “ happy spirit that existed that we could still laugh and
appreciate a good gag. I well remember too that we all had many belly
laughs when discussing a story  or material and W alt would explode some
wild gag to incorporate in the story .” Sometimes they would head to the
roof of the building and pose f or the camera or they would go to nearby
T roost L ake and shoot footage of themselves. On weekends th e staf f took
out the Universa l camera and p rowled the streets, looking for accidents. If
they failed to f ind one, they would often stage one to shoot. On one
occasion, thinking that the Universal camera was not impressive-looking
enough, they rigged two lar ge c ans to a box and then cruised, pretending to
film. “[P ]eople would come up and pose and say , ‘Where are y ou from?’”
Rudy Ising said. “And we’d say , ‘New Y ork.’”
The fun was a compensation for and a release from the constant duress of
scratching for money . The studio was a wonderful club, but W alt was a poor
manager and, by his own admission, incautious with money . (Of  his father ’ s
frugality , W alt said, “I didn’ t inh erit any of that thrift.”) “It will t ake another
five thou sand to  put the place over ,” Red L yon, the camerama n, wrote his
mother that October , “an additional fifty or hundred thousand to put in a
real production plant next sprin g. W e originally capitalized only enough to
get o ut f our pictures of our series. Our fifth is nearly done.” Bu t despite the
pressure and the lack of funds, he said, “I am going to sit tight. I have the
greatest opportu nity I have ever had and I’m in for everything b ut my false
teeth.” T he next month Cowles loaned W alt another $2,500, but it only
tided them over . “W alt’ s checks kept bouncing,” Ising recalled. “All of us
eventually work ed for nothing.” Already a process server was visiting the
of fice, asking for “Mr . Dinsey .” Several times W alt fended him of f by
insisting that “Mr . Dinsey” was  not there, until W alt Pfeif fer called W alt’ s
name when the server happened to be in the of fice and W alt confessed:
“Y eah, I ’m W alt  Disney . But m y name is Disney , not Dinsey!”  W ithin two
weeks of his wr iting his mother that he was “in for everything,” L yon now
wrote her that the company was “worse than broke,” $2,000 in debt and
losing $4,000 more each week, and that he was “going to try and sell my
stock—loan the money to the company and possibly quit and get me
something more  sure.” Still, he said, they had been “turning out some real