# Página 510  
tremendous success. By one estimate over 32 million Americans eventually
saw the film at nearly twelve thousand theaters, and of these viewers,
according to a Gallup poll, 37 percent said that the film had had an ef fect on
their wil lingness to pay taxes, a nd 86 percent felt that Disney should make
shorts for the government on other subjects.
Still, the  poll contained one un settling number that would soon bedevil
W alt: only 46 p ercent of Americans believed that the government should
foot the bill for the film. Just da ys after the premiere the House  debated the
T reasury Depar tment appropriations and voted 259 to 1 12 to eliminate
$80,000 that the department had  requested to pay for The New Spirit.  (The
amount included costs for prints, distribution, and promotion.) “They have
hired him to m ake a moving picture that is going to cost $80,000 to
persuade people to pay their income taxes,” declaimed Republican
congressman John T aber of New Y ork on the House floor . “My God! Can
you thin k of anything that would come nearer to making people hate to pay
their income tax than the knowledge that $80,000, that should go for a
bomber , is to be  spent for a moving picture to entertain people?” “Billions
for defense,” T aber orated, “but not one buck for Donald Duck.”
Representative Carl Curtis of Nebraska called the appropriatio n the “most
outrageous and scandalous piece of money-wasting I know of.” Other
Republicans opposing the Roosevelt administration lumped W alt with an
apparent boondo ggle—a dancer who had been appointed to a c ivil defense
post but  whose major qualification, said the Republicans, was an apparent
friendship with Eleanor Roosevelt. In the upper chamber , tho ugh several
senators came to Disney’ s defense, the expenditure for The New Spirit  was
not restored to the appropriations bill.
The iron y was that W alt had actually lost money making The New Spirit,
roughly $6,000 on the product ion itself and another $50,000 in forfeited
bookings of commercial shorts t hat were replaced by the govern ment short.
In h is business naïveté he had also signed an unfavorable agre ement with
the T rea sury De partment, sayin g that he would make the film for “out of
pocket c osts” up  to $40,000, no t realizing (as Roy later chastise d him) that
this didn’ t include the “indirect costs of supervision, lighting, heat, taxes,
depreciation an d many other such things” and that the government’ s