# Página 28  
W alt Disney would remember Marceline, Missouri. He would remember it
more viv idly tha n anything else in his childhood, perhaps more vividly than
any place in his entire lifetime. “Marceline was the most important part of
W alt’ s li fe,” his wife would say .  “He didn’ t live there very long. He lived in
Chicago and Kansas City much longer . But there was somethin g about the
farm that was very important t o him.” He would remember t he family’ s
arrival—“clearly remember every detail of it,” he later  said. He
remembered get ting of f the trai n and crossing to a grain elevator , where a
neighbor named  Cof fman waited for them, and he remembered clambering
onto Cof fman’ s wagon and driving out to the farm about a mile from the
town’ s center , north of Julep Road and of the railroad track that sliced
diagonally through the heart of Marceline. And he remembered his first
impression of the site—its dazzling wide front yard carpeted green and
crowded with weeping willows.
It was a small farm. Uncle Robert’ s property , a mile west, was n early five
hundred acres, while Elias had purchased only forty acres on March 5,
1906, from the c hildren of a Civil W ar veteran named Crane who had died
recently , and then bought just over five acres more the next month from
Crane’ s widow . Elias’ s property cost $3,000, money he did n ot have just
then, bu t he had made an arrang ement to pay in installments as he received
the proceeds from the sale of his properties in Chicago. Despite its modest
size, W alt would always recall the farm through the prism of a child’ s
wonder and always think of it as a paradise. Game abounded; there were
foxes, rabbits, squirrels, opossums, and raccoons. And there were birds.
During migration teal and sprig would settle on the pasture pond. Of the
forty-five acres,  five were planted with orchards, apple, peach, and plum
trees with grapevines and berry plants. “W e had every kind of apple you
ever heard of,” W alt recalled, “including one called a W olf River apple.
W olf Ri ver appl es were tremendous in size. People came from miles to see
ours.” A nd there were a hog pen, chickens, a few milk cows, an d four to six
horses. “[I]t was just heaven for  city kids,” said Roy , which is exactly what
Elias intended it to be.
And because it was in the country everything seemed  heavenly , even
when it wasn’ t. The wooden one-story farmhouse in which the Disneys