# Página 596  
personnel, in char ge of the story department. But this was  really just
shuf fling the chairs on the deck of a sinking ship. As Ben Sharpsteen later
explained it, “W e knew that it w ould never endure. Certain people would be
put in char ge of this or that, but there was very little likelihood that they
would s tay in that position for very long. W alt would probably give their
job to someone else in a sudden move.” Still, Sharpsteen said, W alt
“persisted in complaining that w e had no plan for management and that we
had to or ganize ourselves.” Fred  Leahy , who was still nominally  the head of
production unde r W alt, had lost most of his authority when he suggested
that the studio cut Fantasia  into shorts. Jack Reeder , who was nominally the
head of the entire studio opera tion, ran afoul of W alt by taking his own
command seriou sly until W alt f inally forced him out of the studio in May
1948. T wo months after Reeder left, W alt reinstated gambling at the
Penthouse Club as a kind of final kick at the bureaucrats.
But even after retaking the helm, he was still lar gely diddling,
disengaged, and  uninterested. He spent the early part of the yea r finalizing
The W ind in the W illows  and Ichabod Crane,  w hich he inten ded to release
as a single film since neither part was long enough or substantia l enough to
constitute a feature in itself. ( W alt had once written to a fan who had
suggested a film of W illows : “ [W]e have never considered  it particularly
well suited for cartoon materia l.”) While the studio lumbered ahead on
various feature projects, W alt was also working on a live-action film set in
rural Indiana about a young bo y who adopts a black lamb, and a second
T rue-Life Adventure, this one on beavers. It was another sign of the studio’ s
financial and imaginative stagn ation, however , that its big rele ase in 1948
was Melody T ime,  a compilation of seven shorts, and though it had
originally been intended as an anthology of American folk heroism, the
only heroes who survived were  Johnny Appleseed and Pecos B ill; the rest
of the film had sections as disparate as a musical interpretation of Joyce
Kilmer ’ s poem “T rees” and a Cu rrier and Ives–style animation titled “Once
Upon a W intertime.” The film cost a staggering $2 million and returned
only $1.3 million—a loss Roy attributed to a polio scare that kept children
out of theaters—forcing him to memo W alt: “It makes it all more necessary
all the economies we can ef fect.” More layof fs followed.