# Página 255  
his stor y department with Sears and Smith, which by late 1932 was
segregated from  the animators, and throughout 1932 and 1933 he had
further divided the animators th emselves into key animators, who drew the
major p oses or extremes, in-betweeners, who drew the action in between
the e xtremes, and assistants, wh o cleaned up all the animation drawings and
readied them to be inked and p ainted on the cels—a division that had the
added bo nus of allowing younger animators to learn from more experienced
ones. N ow new roles emer ged, as well as even greater specialization, to
make production less haphazard.
The pro cess alw ays began with the story . In the early days th e stories
usually originat ed with W alt, w ho would relate them to his animators to
help him  “gag” them during brainstorming sessions. When in the late 1920s
W alt began assigning cartoons to directors to execute—eithe r Iwerks or
Jackson, and after Iwerks left, Burt Gillett—he would have them draw up
rough sketches of the continuit y , which W alt examined and a pproved or
improved. “[T]he picture W alt was after was in his head, not o n pieces of
paper ,” W ilfred Jackson said. Though the hatching of the story remained the
least for malized stage of the c artoon, that informality gradua lly changed
thanks to  the activities of the ne w story department. W alt might still present
a s ituation to hi s crew on which  they were to ruminate, or after the studio
expanded, he might distribute a  mimeographed outline of a new  animation
to so licit gags from the entire staf f, which would then be band ied about at
lar ge gag meetings on the soundstage.* (By 1934 he was requesting that
these gags be drawn rather tha n written: “This would be an ideal way to
present your story because it th en shows the visualized possibilities, rather
than a lot of words, explaining things that…turn out to be impossible to put
over in action.” ) But in the early 1930s W alt also created a new position,
that of the sketch artist, who w orked with the storymen and p roduced the
storyboards. After a gag meeting the storyman and sketch artist would meet
with a director to develop the continuity . When the storyman and sketch
artist felt ready , they would drag the giant storyboards to one of the music
rooms fo r a presentation to W alt. That part never changed, no matter how
much the studio expanded: W a lt was always the final author ity , the one
whom everyone had to please.