# Página 664  
seemed more prescient, and his  interest had only intensified. S hortly after
the war ’ s end the studio applied to the Federal Communications
Commission for a television station license and announced plans to build a
television broad casting center on the lot, though Roy decided to withdraw
the application, fearing that the expense would be too great and that the
studio would be better served w aiting for color broadcasts that w ould better
showcase the studio’ s animation s. But the interest never wavered. In 1947
Roy ordered ten-inch television sets for all the executives, and the next year
W alt spent a w eek in New Y ork with the sole purpose o f watching
television “day and night” to get a handle on the medium. H azel Geor ge
said tha t when he returned to t he studio, he had become mess ianic about
television. “T ele vision is the coming thing,” he told her , and dismissed all
those motion picture moguls who perceived it as a threat.
As W alt saw it—and he was lar gely alone among film executives in this
respect—television was not the enemy of the motion picture; it was its ally .
It might have the ef fect of killing of f the B-movie, he told The New Y ork
T imes,  but  it would he lp advertise movies, he believed, and he intend ed to
“take fu ll advan tage of its poten tial to create a new motion picture audience
and to encoura ge the fullest box of fice patronage of our f orthcoming
pictures.” Roy was no less enthu siastic. Of fering possibilities to  recycle old
films an d make new films backed by corporate sponsors, television, he saw ,
was a way to underwrite the entire studio operation. “W e wouldn’ t have the
pressure of putting entertainment product into work unless you really felt
good ab out it,” he wrote W alt,  “and that would give us a better batting
average in the e ntertainment fie ld and more safety—as well as more peace
of m ind. The sp onsored films would change our business over  to almost a
new bus iness with unlimited possibilities, in place of the ever pinching
outlook in the strictly theatrical field.”
W alt was eager to take the leap. As early as March 1950, he had
suggested to Roy that the studi o launch its own television program using
old Disney shorts. Roy agreed, calling it a “grand formula,” and told W alt to
select a  crew and draw up a budget. That idea foundered, no doubt a
casualty of the other demands on W alt’ s time, but that summer Roy and
W alt were talking with Coca-Co la about the company sponsoring an hour -