# Página 672  
But the ramific ations of the d eal, as significant as they were, went
beyond ABC and Disney . In agreeing to provide a program for ABC, the
Disney studio had broken ranks  with its motion picture brethren who had,
much to ABC’ s consternation, held firm against television. Though
Columbia and Republic Pictures had produced television programs, they
did so through subsidiaries so as to keep the lines of demarcation between
movies and television clear . W alt Disney , in putting his production company
directly in the service of televisi on without any subterfuges, had made what
The New  Y ork T imes  c alled the “firs t move by a leading studio into the
home en tertainment field,” and the T imes  predicted that “if it turns out to be
successful, it may very well lead to more such working alliances among the
major st udios a nd the networks.” The T imes  concluded: “The end result
could, indeed, change the complexion of the entertainment business.” That
was exactly what would happen.  
When A BC and W alt Disney P roductions announced their agreement in a
joint pre ss release on April 2, 1954, they promised that Disney would
provide the network with “an entirely new concept in  television
programming,” one that would incorporate the “use of both live action and
cartoon techniq ues in a series of programs based on variety , adventure,
romance and comedy .” At least,  that was the stated intention. The problem
was tha t W alt Disney , six m onths after Cottrell’ s memo on possible
television formats, had yet to conceptualize the show for which he now had
a three-year contract. While the negotiations were heating up that March,
W alt had  called on fourteen mem bers of his staf f, along with Roy , to discuss
a format. W alt k new the program had to be syner gistic; it had to promote
both Dis ney film s and Disneyland, and he suggested that they  set up four
production units —one for each “land” in the Disneyland park. As he put it
bluntly , “The main idea of the p rogram is to sell.” A program on how the
T rue-Life Adventures were shot would promote the latest T rue-Life
Adventure on Africa and Adventureland while a program on American folk
heroes w ould pr omote the Frontierland area of the park. And he was excited
about th e idea of sponsor tie-ins between the show and Disneyland. At the