# Página 658  
At D isneyland, W alt imagined a  western town that was the movies’ idea
of th e W est, eve n, according to architectural historian Karal Ann Marling,
instructing Harper Gof f to model the saloon after one that Gof f had
designed for the recent film Calamity Jane.  H e imagined a  jungle cruise
ride that  would be modeled after another recent film, The African  Queen,
which Gof f loved. He imagine d a castle that was the Platonic castle of
everyone’ s imagination. He ima gined a Main Street with its quaint shops,
its horse -drawn carriages, its train station, fire station, and police station, its
town hall and to wn square that was so quintessentially turn-of -the-century
American that even W alt’ s promotional material boasted, “W e want
everyone to feel that this is MAIN STREET , U.S.A.  and that you are
actually living this period.”
As W alt drew on  these archetypal American images, he also drew on the
archetypal images that he himself had created and that had become
embedded in the American con sciousness. “W e enter the land of Disney
with the sense of having been there before because we return to an America
unified by our common experience,” wrote one visitor in The New Y ork
T imes,  inc luding in that collective p ast the experience of Snow White,
Cinder ella, Thr e e Little Pigs, Peter Pan,  and  Mic key and  Minnie Mouse. It
was a testament  to how much W alt Disney had helped shape the American
imagination. An d to make abs olutely certain that guests to Disneyland
would stay within their imag inations, W alt planned a high berm, or
embankment, to surround the park and blot out the surroundings, like the
berm he had bu ilt at the studio and at Carolwood so that hi s neighbors
wouldn’ t be disturbed by his tra in. The berm literally kept the world at bay
as W alt had always wanted to do at his studio. “[W]hen you enter
DISNEYLAND, ” th e promotional brochure announced, “you will find
yourself in the land of yesterd ay , tomorrow , and fantasy . Nothing of the
present exists in DISNEYLAND. ”
As D isneyland was designed to block out the world, it was also  designed
to o f fer a part icular kind of psychological experience that one didn’ t
ordinarily find at an amusement  park or carnival, much less in r eality . Most
amusement park s, in fact, were  like the W arner Bros. cartoons  of the late
1940s—noisy , chaotic, bombastic, subversive. One was made to feel that