# Página 786  
be s hown. W alt reluctantly broke the news to the audience. “Ladies and
gentlemen,” he said, “there’ s an  old saying in show business. If you’re not
ready , don’ t open the curtain.” A s he made his announcement, beneath the
stage the Imagineers were weeping.
Later W alt wou ld blame the pr oblems on a delay in the installation of
power at the pav ilion and on traf fic delays in New Y ork that pre vented parts
from being delivered, and he warned, “This is not a toy .” Other accounts
attributed the dif ficulties variously to dust, a blown transformer ,
fluctuations in current, and even  unions that failed to complete the wiring.
Ralph N ewman believed that W alt actually wanted  t o delay  the opening so
he w ouldn’ t have to compete wi th other attractions. But Lincoln didn’ t start
operating until April 30, ten days after the aborted previe w , and he
delivered only seven flawless performances before malfunctioning once
again, prompting  Marc Davis to pose another explanation: “Do y ou suppose
God is mad at W alt for creating man in his own image?” Eventually , the
Imagineers man aged to repair the problems, and Lincoln began regular
performances that erased the earlier embarrassments. As Sharon later
remembered, “Dad cried every time he sat through it.”
Y et for all the problems with Lincoln—W alt immediately checked
himself into the hospital for an examination and a rest when he returned to
California from his two harrowing weeks at the fair—Disney was
triumphant. At the end of the first season (the fair would have a second
season after a s ix-month hiatus) GE’ s Carousel of Progress w as the third
most popular attraction, behind only the General Motors exhibit , which had
a c apacity two a nd a half times  as lar ge as GE’ s, and the V atican’ s, which
featured Michelangelo’ s Pietà.  For d’ s e xhibit r anked fourth. Lincoln didn’ t
qualify because the pavilion’ s capacity was too small, but th e robot had
worked reliably  enough that W alt, much to the consternation of Ralph
Newman, was having another one made for Disneyland, w hich, W alt
advised Newman, was “always its ultimate destination.”