# Página 574  
Diane’ s birthday , which he had  missed so often, and began the new year
juggling the compilation film about American heroes, another combination
live acti on–animation called So Dear to My Heart,  an animated version of
W ashington Irving’ s The Legend of Sleepy Hollow ,  and an animated Edgar
Allan Po e story that had been suggested to him by the British actor James
Mason. “It would, of course, be a new departure for us and something the
public w ould never expect,” W alt wrote Mason, clearly searching for ways
to chang e his image and reinvigorate the studio. He was even thinking of
asking Alfred Hitchcock to direct.
But with the economic gloom still not having lifted as he had hoped and
the carto ons still not finding fav or , W alt was beleaguered and despondent,
and though he always claimed that he functioned better in adversity and that
a “kick in the teeth may be the b est thing in the world for you,” he had been
kicked i n the teeth for years now , and the kicks were not abating. “When he
came back to a nimation after the war ,” Frank Thomas observed, “W alt
never had the same enthusiasm…. It was never like it was o n the early
pictures, where he knew every frame of the film.” Moreover , the layof fs in
1946 an d attrition had shrunk the workforce; despite W alt’ s promises to
stockholders tha t the studio was  on the rebound, only an emer gency loan of
$1 m illion from RKO late in 1 946 rescued the company from insolvency .
When W oolie Reitherman retur ned to Burbank in 1947, he recalled that
“there was quite a lot of down feeling at the studio.” He wou ld see W alt
eating at the Penthouse Club, and W alt “always seemed to be a little
worried.” One animator remem bered a story conference where W alt was
clearly distracted. The man who had been pitching the story was forlorn at
W alt’ s la ck of interest. “W alt looked at him and said, ‘Y ou have n’ t anything
to worry  about. It’ s me. I’m the one that has to worry . Goddamn , I’ve got to
stay up all night thinking about things for you guys to do.’”
He was always t hinking about ways to save the studio, always worrying.
One nig ht after work W alt sauntered down to Roy’ s of fice on the second
floor of the Animation Building, and the two brothers sat there until roughly
eight o’clock pondering their predicament. “Look,” Roy said he told his
brother angrily , breaking the silence, “you’re letting this place drive you
nuts. That’ s one place I’m not g oing with you.” And Roy stormed out. He