# Página 711  
asked to be reassigned. W alt insisted he stay . When Ellenshaw
remonstrated, W alt barked, “I’m talking. Y ou shut up.” As Ellen shaw put it,
“He cut me dow n as if he had h ad a scythe in his hand.” “Y ou h ave to have
a humble attitude, don’ t ar gue,” Harry T ytle wrote his wife from Europe
after W alt had snapped at another longtime employee, Gerry Geronomi,
over din ner ther e. And as alway s he was mercurial. “Y ou were being patted
on the head by t his kindly old u ncle who wanted you to be happy and have
a nice warm lunch when you suddenly realized you were talking to Attila
the Hun,” said producer Bill W alsh.
Such behavior may have been  caused by a still-simmering d esire for
revenge for the s trike, or frustration at a studio that could no lon ger produce
films of which Disney could be proud, or hostility at having to d eal with the
studio at all when Disneyland clearly claimed his attention. Bill Cottrell
thought that after the initial emo tional rush of the park, W alt was seized by
a de eper sense of responsibilit y for the construction of Disn eyland. “As
time went on, W alt grew more serious,” Cottrell said, adding, “I don’ t think
W alt was having as much fun as he should have had.” Animator Eric Larson
noticed it too. W alt, who had always hated the thought of m oney , now
began to talk about it and worry about it “because they brought in people
from the  outside who talked him  into the value of money .” But whatever it
was, to those at the studio, W alt Disney , who had long been a distant and a
terrifying prese nce, had become even more distant and even more
terrifying.
VI
W alt’ s image was that of a “lovable genius,” as columnist Lou ella Parsons
called h im. The  image was tha t even if he had necessarily become more
corporate as the company h ad grown, he had not bec ome more
“Hollywood.” He and Lillian were, in Parsons’ s words, “two o f the really
happily married people in our town.” Lillian herself seemed to endorse that
view . Near the end of her life she told one interviewer that sh e wouldn’ t
have traded a minute of “our wonderful life together” and said that she
“adored him.” In truth, however , their marriage had tensions—serious ones,