# Página 320  
contributions were always subsumed under W alt Disney’ s vision and
usually under his name as well, W alt had come to view it as a co mmunity of
artists united toward one goal. For a man who had long searched for escape
into his art, the studio itself now  had become an alternative wo rld—a near -
perfect world.  
Even so , the or ganization came  no easier than the animations. The tension
between creativity and commerce, between doing the work well and making
sure it was don e profitably , was constant. Although resources had been
shifted to Snow White,  the studio was nevertheless obligated with the
Mickeys and Symphonies to p roduce a cartoon every two we eks, which
meant it had to turn out roughly seventy-five feet of film every day . T o meet
the schedule, in-betweeners began working nights but now found
themselves, as personnel chief Paul Hopkins wrote W alt, “physically unable
to produce the work” during the  day , since they were now “tired and worn
out with the night sessions.” Even with the staf f as committed and fulfilled
as th ey were, and even as W alt tried to relieve the pressures of time as best
he could , the situation was stressful given the demands of footage and of
quality and of the self-impose d desire to do great work. Thomas and
Johnston said that the animators felt they were only as good as their last
scene an d that they always fretted about slipping. Artist Rico Lebrun, who
conducted art classes at the studio, claimed, “I have never found a more
thoroughly self-critical bunch in  my life.” One frazzled animator , asking for
a leave to go to another studio, thanked W alt for the release , saying, “I
believe it will help me recuperate to some extent.”
As a  uto pian, W alt did not like being the taskmaster; he preferred being
the mus e. When the staf f ’ s self-discipline didn’ t suf fice to ke ep them on
schedule, he appointed Ben Sharpsteen to enforce some semblance of
discipline. Sharpsteen’ s own wife said of him, “Ben realizes he is not
talented, that he can’ t compete.  He was fired of f of every job he had until
Disney .” Bald and bulb-headed with a tiny mustache, Sharpsteen —who had
moved o n from animation to become head of the training program and then