# Página 687  
longtime gag writer at the studio before W alt tapped him for the show . It
was W il liams w ho, recalling a s cene from an old Mickey Mous e cartoon in
which Mickey tips his skull to Minnie, ears and all, as if it were a hat, came
up with the idea of a black mo use-ears cap that all the perfor mers on the
show would wear .
Though W alt personally signed of f on each cast member and though he
approved segments and often visited the set, The Mic key Mou se Club  was a
W alt Disney production in nam e only . There was just too much to do, and
for W alt too m any other priorities, and the show was basic ally thrown
together on the fly . “W e would discuss an idea in the morning,” W alsh
recalled, “the songwriters would  write songs that day , and we w ould shoot
in the afternoon . It was probab ly the quickest draw on television.” That
didn’ t escape unnoticed. Jack Gould in The New Y ork T imes  called the debut
in October 1955 “disastrous” and found the Mouseketeers’ production
numbers “only irritatingly cute and contrived and bereft of any semblance
of the justly fam ous Disney touch.” He thought the whole show “keenly
disheartening and disappointing.”
Gould m ay have  been right that  The Mic key Mou se Club  was  che ap and
cutesy , b eneath Disney’ s talents , but it was clearly not a program intended
for t he critics. A  group of 131 children previewed the show a t the studio
three days before its debut; all 131 said they liked it, and all said they would
want to watch it every day . That proved to be a prediction. In its  first season
over ten million children watche d the show each day and more than half as
many adults. Dodd’ s theme so ng became an instant classic, still sung
decades later , and two million mouse-ears were sold within th e first three
months of the program’ s debu t. One of the Mouseketeers, dark-haired
Annette Funicello, became the nation’ s prepubescent heartthrob. When
Dodd visited New Y ork in Feb ruary 1955, socialite and fashion doyenne
Babe Paley , the wife of CBS ch ief W illiam S. Paley , asked if her children
could meet him. Afterward Dodd told W alt that the kids knew all the show’ s
songs an d that The Mic key Mou se Club  was  the  “only show Babe Paley lets
her children watch.”