# Página 165  
anything like the fusion of W illie.  Some never could catch up. Felix the Cat
animator Hal W alker lamented that “Disney put us out of business with his
sound.”  
Now W alt, or m ore accurately Powers, was fielding of fers, but what should
have bee n triumph led again to disappointment. The problem w as that the
distributors, all of them, wanted  to buy W alt’ s studio, not just h is cartoons.
After hi s experience with Mintz, he was adamant about not selling, not
surrendering control, no matter how badly he needed revenue, because he
didn’ t w ant to be just another animation producer . He wanted to be the king
of animation. “I knew that I would be restrained as to what I could spend on
pictures,” he would write a few  years later , “and held down to what their
idea of cartoon costs should be.” W alt, as fervent as ever that quality was
his o nly real adv antage, was determined to spend as much on his cartoons
as producers were spending on their live one-reel comedies. As a
consequence, in stead of selling the studio, W alt, clearly emb oldened by
W illie’ s recepti on, told  distributors that he insisted on a negative advance of
$5,000 a gainst a  sixty-forty split of profits in his favor after the  distributor
had recovered the advance and expenses. Every distributor declined. W ith
W alt seemingly defeated, Powe rs of fered to step into the breach. Already
W alt’ s sales agent, he would also  distribute the film on a states’ rights basis,
essentially franchising the pic ture to state and regional distributors in
exchange for 10 percent of the gross he collected from them. W alt had been
saved again by Pat Powers. Or at least he thought he had.
And so now in m id-December , more than three full months aft er he had
arrived, three lonely and agonizing months, W alt could finally return to
California with at least the prom ise of distribution—a promise that luckily
began to  be fulfilled a few weeks later . Just before Christmas Charles
Giegerich, Powers’ s right-hand man, closed an agreement wit h the entire
chain of Stanley-Fabian-W arner Theatres, a chain that included the
prominent Stran d Theatre in New  Y ork, for $3,000 per subject. “W ith this is
[ sic ] t he bag,” Gieg erich wrote W alt, “everything should go airplaning from