# Página 356  
from the  huge debt of over a m illion dollars that the studio had  incurred in
the p rocess, quickly dissipated. “I believe everyone in that first Snow White
audience could have predicted the enormous success of the film ,” wrote the
normally dyspeptic animator Bill Peet. “They were carried away by the
picture from the very beginning, and as it went along everyone was
bubbling over with enthusiasm and frequently bursting into spontaneous
applause.” Ken O’Connor , an ar t director on the film, said of th e audience,
“They even applauded the background and layouts when no animation was
on the screen.” O’Connor was sitting near the actor John Barr ymore, who
began “bouncing  up and down in his seat he was so excited” when the shot
of t he Queen’ s castle came on screen with the Queen poling her boat
through the fog.
But the “highlig ht,” as W ard K imball put it, was the bier scene. “Clark
Gable and Carole Lombard wer e sitting close, and when Snow  White was
poisoned, stretc hed out on that slab, they started blowing th eir noses. I
could he ar it—crying—that wa s the big surprise. W e worried about the
serious stuf f and whether they would feel for this girl, and when they did, I
knew it was in the bag.” Everyone in the theater seemed to be  crying and
dabbing at his or her eyes. And at the end the audience exploded into what
one atte ndee called a “thunderous ovation.” Even the animators seemed to
be in  aw e of the achievement. “I don’ t know how we did it,” Grim Natwick
told an interviewer years later . “I don’ t think anyone really does.”
“I h ave made a wager that the picture will set up grosses nearing the
record mark and I expect to buy  an Ar gentine pony with the money I shall
win,” pr oducer Hunt Stromber g wrote W alt after the premiere. Expressing
their “profound admiration,” Harman and Ising wired W alt, “OUR PRIDE
IN T HE PRODUCTION IS SCARCEL Y LESS THAN YOURS MUST BE
AND WE ARE GRA TEFUL T O YOU FOR FULFILLING AN
AMBITION W HICH MANY OF  US HA V E LONG HELD FOR OUR
INDUSTR Y .”  Produce r Nat Levine compared  it to the first sound film and
said that in atten ding the premiere, “I could not help but feel t hat I was in
the mid st of motion picture history .” Director Cecil B. DeM ille sent a
telegram saying, “I WISH I CO ULD MAKE PICTURES LIKE SNOW
WHITE.”  A nd even Joe Rosenber g, who  had seemed so grudging at the