# Página 106  
But if W alt Dis ney was made for Hollywood, he himself q uestioned
whether Hollywood was made  for him. He hardly looked like a movie
swell. H e arrive d early in Augu st 1923 in his borrowed suit with nothing
but pluck and hi s peculiar self-confidence. (Despite his penury , as his wife
would la ter tell it, he had travele d first-class because he “always wanted the
best way .”) His own clothes made him seem shabby and downscale, as did
the m onths of ne ar -starvation in  Kansas City that had melted of f the pounds
he had gained in France and m ade him cadaverous. “He looked like the
devil,” R oy recalled. “I remember he had a hacking cough, and I  used to tell
him, ‘For Christ’ s sake, don’ t you  get TB!’”
Despite his outward confidence , he was worried about how he would
make his way in Hollywood. Though he had brought his reel of Alice’ s
W onderland  and  his drawin g implements with him, he was not hopeful
about his prospects in animation. He now felt he had gotten into the
business too late, that it was too insular , that he would not reall y be able to
break into the big time of animation, which was, in any case, centered in
New Y ork. “I had put my drawing board away ,” he told an interviewer years
later . “W hat I wanted to do wa s get a job in a studio—any st udio, doing
anything,” thoug h in truth his aspirations were lar ger and more fanciful. He
now hoped to get a job as a live-action director somewhere.
He l oved motion picture studio s—the very source of fantasy . E arly one
morning that first week he took a bus out to Universal City  in the San
Fernando V alley  and by flashing  his old Universal News press card, which
he had kept from the time he worked as a stringer shooting ne wsreels, he
managed to wangle a pass. He wandered the lot, walking through the sets,
not leav ing until late that night. He called it “one of the big thrills I had.”
Soon aft erward he toured the V itagraph studio with his cousin Alice Allen,
who wa s visitin g from the Mid west. He also got onto the Paramount lot,
where he ran into an old Kansas City acquaintance who was picking up
work as an extra and who encouraged W alt to apply for a job on a W estern
riding a horse; h e got the role, but the shoot was rained out, an d W alt was
replaced when it was rescheduled. He spent time exploring Metro too.