# Página 539  
this is it.’” Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas believed that the scene, along
with another that Kimball later a nimated for the short Pecos Bill,  initiated a
“whole wave of preposterous actions and brittle timing throughout the
industry ,” which  meant that th e Disney studio, which had s pearheaded
realism, was now spearheading the self-reflexive movement away from it.
But not everyone was enamor ed of this new direction. Jam es Agee
detected a “streak of cruelty” in Caballer os,  a  streak he tho ught had been
gathering force for years in Disney’ s films, perhaps as W alt’ s retribution for
the tribu lations he felt he had suf fered. Barbara Deming, writing  in Partisan
Review ,  al so believed th at Disney had “wrought something monstrous,”  but
she thought that in doing so he had made a telling commentary on the times.
As Deming saw it, Disney’ s “gift” was “to be able to accept wholeheartedly
the outlo ok of the hour , and to improvise with it, whatever it might be,”
which was how Mickey Mouse could express the aggressive rebelliousness
of the Depression and Pinocchio  th e new moral commitment required by
the coming war . In Caballer os,  by  making the entire film  into a
phantasmagoria in which chara cters and shapes keep morphing into other
characters and shapes, in which the object of one’ s desire seems to be
attained only to disappear , and in which both the characte rs and the
audience keep losing their bearings, W alt Disney had managed to find the
perfect metaphor for a world spinning in the vortex of war . “Nothing holds
its shape ,” Dem ing observed, concluding that Donald Duck in Caballer os
“could be likened in his adventures here, his confusions and translations, to
most ma jor characters now passing across our screens” and presumably to
Americans generally: lost.
None of these reactions mad e its commercial prospects any more
favorable, and Kay Kamen had overheard an RKO representative
grumbling that he was going to have a hard time selling the film. As it
turned out, the chaos of Caballer os  was more appealing than either the
tender s olemnity of Bambi  or the t endentiousness of V ictory Thr ough Air
Power .  It  accrued $900,000 in billings in just 1 1 weeks, compared t o 31
weeks for Bambi  and 48 for Dumbo.  In Sou th Ame rica it was wi ldly
popular . The Mexican magazine T iempo  l aud ed W alt as “one of the grea test
creators in the motion picture w orld” and said he had brought a “world of