# Página 519  
reputation for being arrogant, tough-minded, and cantankerous, but Roy had
met him that July and was impressed, calling him “refreshing and
interesting,” and —what was important to Roy—not out to squeeze the
studio fo r additi onal money . For Seversky as for W alt, this was all about
patriotism, all about promoting a new way to win the war—wh at Seversky
felt was the only way to win the war .
Now , pr essed to convince the pu blic of the theory as soon as po ssible so
that he could m ake a dif ference, W alt began yet another push. (He felt
another pressure too: a preliminary survey conducted for the studio showed
that the public was tiring of wa r films, so that, as the pollster put it, “the
sooner VICT OR Y THR OUGH AIR POWER  can be released, the better .”)
W alt me t Severs ky for the first time on July 28 at the studio, alr eady armed
with sto ryboards and surrounde d by his staf f, including Dave Hand, Bill
Cottrell, and Perce Pearce. As he had been with Leopold Stokowski, W alt
was deferential,  recognizing that this was Seversky’ s project and that W alt
was real ly just the facilitator . La yout artist Ken Anderson remembered one
rainy we ekend that August when he and fellow artist Herb R yman were
essentially lock ed into the stu dio and forced to come up with a final
storyboard. “Seversky would come in and encourage us,” Anderson said,
“and W a lt would give us threatening looks like, ‘Y ou guys better do a good
job beca use I’m counting on you,’” by which Anderson thoug ht he meant
that the country  was counting on them.
W alt was focused again, maybe  for the first time since Fantasia.  That
August a nd September , as Seversky shuttled between the studio and various
speaking engagements, sometimes snatching just a few hours be fore having
to l eave again, the staf f raced to complete both the script and the
storyboards. W a lt kept emphasizing plausibility . “W e have got to  build it up
so that the peop le are convinced—they are right with us on this,” he said at
a sto ry meeting. “If we get too fantastic, it is going to caus e people to
discount the whole thing.” In fac t, it was Seversky , not W alt, who was more
likely to insist on the entertainment value of the film rather than on its
propaganda value, and when W alt objected to one point, Seversky snapped,
“If we’re going to get stuck in the mud of today we may just as well wipe
out the whole picture.”