# Página 693  
F . Goodrich T ires, and the Kellogg cereal company . Contrary to W alt’ s
accounts of resistance to the park, almost everyone swooned. A n of ficer of
the D uPont Chemical Company told W alt that “he would hate to be the one
not to recommend anyone to co me into Disneyland.” W inecof f and Irvine
visited the General Electric he adquarters in Cleveland and found them
“greatly enthused.” Even the usually reserved Joe Rosenber g, their longtime
liaison at the Bank of America, was buttonholing prospective lessees, and a
Standard Oil of California vice p resident had told him that “never in his life
had he seen such wonderful imagination and complete detailed planning”;
Rosenber g said that “they definitely wanted to be part of it” and that the
vice president had even asked him to lobby with the Disneys for them.*
Many of  these tar gets would surrender to the Disney vision and sign on:
W alt col lected $2.3 million in l ease payments, including $50,000 from the
Santa Fe Railroad to sponsor the railway , $45,000 from American Motors to
sponsor a 360-degree movie attraction called Circarama, $45,000 from
Richfield Oil to sponsor Aut opia, the same amount from the Swift
meatpacking company for its Main Street Red W agon Inn, and another
$43,000 for a g rocery . Y et the estimated cost of the park ke pt spiraling
upward, from the $5.25 million  at the time of the ABC signing to nearly
$17 million at the time of the opening. W alt and Roy had c alculated a
cushion; among other contingen cies, they had purchased eleven and a half
acres of  land nearby worth $230,000 that they could sell if ne cessary . But
despite the television contract, the loans, and the leases, despite even the
cushion, they still fretted that there might be too little money , just as there
seemed to be too little time.
This time W alt d id not want to cut corners, did not want to com promise
his vision. When an employee suggested that he use cut glass instead of
stained glass in an attraction called Storybook Land, W alt objected. “Look,
the thing that’ s going to make Disneyland unique and dif ferent,” he insisted,
“is the detail. If we lose the detail, we lose it all.” But as the time of the
opening approached, money was dwindling and the clock was racing, and
just as the Prince in Snow White  s him mied because W alt couldn ’ t af ford to
correct it, he was forced to make concessions at Disneyland. He had wanted
Fantasyland to resemble a Gustaf T enggren watercolor . Instead, economies