# Página 268  
They wear Mickey Mouse caps, waists, socks, shoes, slippers, garters,
mittens, aprons, bibs and underthings, and beneath Mickey Mouse rain
capes and umbrellas. They go to school where Mickey Mouse desk
outfits turn lessons into pleasure.
They play with Mickey Mouse velocipedes, footballs, baseballs,
bounce balls, bats, catching gloves, boxing gloves, doll houses, doll
dishes, tops, blocks, drums, puzzles, games.
Paint sets, sewing sets, drawing sets, stamping sets, jack sets, bubble
sets, pull toys, push toys, animated toys, tents, camp stools, sand pails,
masks, blackboards and balloons.
And eve n that list did not begin  to exhaust the number of Mickey Mouse
products.
Just as Mickey o n film had come to be regarded as a tonic antidote to the
Depression, so did Mickey’ s image on merchandise. Round, colorful,
appealing Mickey Mouse had become the graphic representation of
indomitable happiness even in the face of national despair . “Wherever he
scampers, here or overseas,” the T imes  observed, “the sun of prosperity
breaks through the clouds.” Wh en Ingersoll issued a Mickey M ouse watch,
it p roved so p opular that the company had to cancel its advertising
campaign becau se it had alread y sold out its factory’ s capacity  for months
to come. (Even Roy bought a dozen for his personal use.) The Lionel
Corporation, manufacturers of toy electric trains, had been in receivership
in 19 34 when it  licensed a Mick ey and Minnie handcar . The co mpany sold
253,000 units at Christmas, making it profitable once again and allowing it
to d ischar ge its equity receivers . “There is no case that I reme mber where
more success was met with t han in this case,” the bankru ptcy judge
commented.
The mo use as merchandiser had roughly the same ef fect on his own
studio. I n his first four years Kamen had increased the licen sing 10,000
percent to just u nder $200,000 in royalties a year , and as early a s 1934 W alt
was claiming that he made more money from the ancillary rights to Mickey
than from Mickey’ s cartoons. Thus Disney became the firs t studio to