# Página 275  
IV
Donald Duck was not the only character at the studio to achieve  stardom in
the mid -1930 s. A wards and recognition had tumbled in for W alt himself.
The Art Institute of Chicago exh ibited one hundred Disney drawings, which
the inst itute’ s director said “constitute art in nearly every sense.” The
W riters Club of Los Angeles had feted him at the dinner with W ill Rogers
and Chaplin in attendance, the A merican Art Dealers Association awarded
him one  of its four gold medals, and the Art W orkers Guild of England,
whose ranks included Geor ge Bernard Shaw , bestowed an honorary
membership on W alt—the first  ever in recognition of a filmmaker . The
United S tates Ju nior Chamber of Commerce named him the outstanding
man of the year over New Y ork district attorney Thomas E. Dewey , who
would soon be his state’ s governor and later the Republican presidential
candidate. The French Legion of Honor awarded him its red ribbon, and he
received a gold medal at the V enice Film Festival. Critics now regularly
labeled him a genius.
Famous visitors  clamored to tour the studio and meet him—am ong them
Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford, H. G. W ells and Chaplin, actress
Madeleine Carroll, director Er nst Lubitsch, humorist Rober t Benchley ,
critic Alexander W oollcott, and Russian director Ser gei Eisenstein, who
wrote that he was sometimes frightened watching Disney’ s films
—“frightened because of some  absolute perfection in what he does” and
because Disney seemed to know “all the most secret strand s of human
thought, images, ideas, feelings.” Later , among other notables, architect
Frank Ll oyd W right, novelist Aldous Huxley , and composer Igor Stravinsky
would also visit. “Everybody i n the world beat a path to W alt’ s door ,”
remembered Di ck Huemer . And there was the media coverage—a 1933
profile in T ime,  a 1934 article in  The New Y ork T imes Magazine,  a full-page
photo portrait of W alt by Edward Steichen in V anity Fair  with  M ickey an d
Minnie behind him, and scores of newspaper interviews. His narrow ,
mustachioed fac e was familiar enough now to qualify him, while not yet
thirty-five, as a celebrity . “I sometimes feel that I should pinch myself to
make su re that I am not dreaming,” he blushed to a reporter fro m a Kansas
City newspaper .