# Página 403  
figures of high c ulture, with his long, wild hair and his tabloid ro mances; he
had visited the Disney studio  in 1934 and maintained an  occasional
correspondence with W alt. As Stokowski later told it, over dinn er that night
W alt dis cussed a project he was considering: a musical sh ort of Paul
Dukas’ s symphonic scherzo “ L ’Apprenti Sorcier” or “The  Sorcerer ’ s
Apprentice,” ab out a powerful wizard in whose absence a cu rious pupil
uses the  wizard’ s magical hat a nd scepter with unfortunate results. By one
account, Stokowski of fered to conduct the score for nothing. In  another , he
began expatiating on a dream of his  own: to make an animated feature set to
classical music. Either way , a collaboration began.
W ith Snow White  winding down at the time, The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice
seemed to strike a nerve with W alt. If the former was the stor y of W alt’ s
youth, th e latter  was the story of his new power and his vexed relationship
to it . Bil l T ytla would draw the sorcerer with W alt’ s own famo usly cocked
eyebrow and had named him Y en Sid, “Disney” backward, t o make the
connection betw een the sorcerer ’ s magic omnipotence and W alt’ s. In the
animation universe W alt Disney did control the elements as Y en Sid did in
the c artoon. He was the master , the only one with the “whole equation” in
his head , while his minions were the apprentices, helpless without him. But
another possible  interpretation may have been in W alt’ s own mind as he
awaited the reception to Snow White : that he was not the sorcerer but was
himself the hapless apprentice who dons the sorcerer ’ s hat and summons
the e lements only to discover that they overwhelm him. As a co ntinuity for
The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  des cribed it, “It  is the picture of the typical little
man and what h e would like to do once given complete control of the earth
and its elements.” This turned The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  into a portent for
the studio. (W ith war brewing i n Europe and Asia, it may have also turned
it into a portent for the world generally .) Once Snow White  was completed,
W alt must have sensed that the studio no longer served W alt Disney; rather ,
W alt Disney increasingly serve d the studio, unable to manage  the forces
that he had unleashed. In ef fec t, the cartoon, which was itself a form of
hubris, might be seen as W alt’ s  own nightmare in which he is defeated by
his own hubris.