# Página 600  
one point Diane got interested in music and asked her father to buy her
season t ickets to  the opera. “He’d go with me to every one of th em,” Diane
said, “unless I could get three other girls to go. Then he wou ld drive us
down to the Shrine Auditorium and then come back and pick us up again.”
Diane a dmitted she thought he “hated” the opera. But he never made the
slightest objecti on about going. At the dinner table he liked to tell the
family w hat he was doing, but h e always asked them what they were doing
as well. “And he would listen,” Diane said.
He seldo m disciplined them or displayed the anger in their presence that
his employees so often saw; though with the girls, as with his employees, he
had only to arch his eyebrow to chasten them. Sharon said that the only
time he spanked  her was when she had made an inappropriate comment at
dinner , w as sent to her room, and then complained to her aunt G race about
the punishment. It was the complaining that irked him. And Diane
remembered a time he erupted when she spent most of a Palm Springs
vacation driving  around in his Oldsmobile convertible and socializing with
the d aughters of T wentieth Cent ury–Fox production chief Darry l F . Zanuck,
who had a house nearby . “Y ou’re running a rat race,” Diane said her father
yelled at her wh en he finally caught her at home. “Y ou’re never here! Why
am I here if you’re never around?” as he had once chastised Marjorie
Sewell. Then he left for the studio. A few days later Diane was  driving the
Oldsmobile whe n she got into a “fender bender .” W alt drove right down to
the scene of the accident and never said a word of reprimand. “That’ s the
way he was,” Diane said. “He only got mad when he felt hurt.”
Lillian c ould be thoughtless with the girls. She and W alt had decided
never to let Sharon know that she was adopted, but when Sh aron was a
teenager two of her classmates at the W estlake School who were themselves
adoptees, told her that she was adopted too. When Sharon confronted her
mother with the information, Lillian said matter -of-factly and without
softening the blow , “W ell, yo u are.” Diane said, “That wa s Mother ’ s
attitude about a lot of things, ma ybe a little insensitive but not realizing it.”
W alt wa s dif fere nt. Most of the  time he was considerate, even tender , with
his girls. When he took Sharon  to Alaska, she called him the “picture of
patience,” sayin g that he braide d her long hair every morning, washed out