# Página 296  
attention lavished on the story and for all the talent commandeered to
execute it, W alt was moving so incrementally , scene by scene, line by line,
even word by word, that by the spring of 1935 he had yet to name all the
dwarfs o r charac terize them, much less finalize the script. If there was any
possibility to a scene, he seemed  determined not to overlook it. Snow White
would n ot be rushed, even if that meant disregarding the original schedule.
It would percolate for as long as it took the film to brew .  
There was another drag on the process that winter and spring besides W alt’ s
perfectionism: W alt wasn’ t well. Feeling out of sorts, he had been taking
injections for what his doctors had diagnosed as a “defective thyroid,” but
Roy found that the treatment seemed to make W alt more jittery . He was also
spent. He had been working ind efatigably on Snow White  for months—his
last vac ation had been a thre e-week cruise to Honolulu the previous
summer—while also having to oversee the entire production of shorts.
Obviously cognizant of how dependent the entire studio was on W alt’ s
well-being, Roy suggested that they take their wives on an extended tour of
Europe to celebrate their tenth wedding anniversaries—the firs t time W alt
would h ave visi ted the Continent since the war . W alt, who hated to leave
the studio, reluctantly or not left for New Y ork on June 2, 1935, and
boarded the Normandie  on its maiden voyage to Plymouth, England, on
June 7, arriving five days later . M indful of how much needed to be done, he
instructed the staf f not to let “matters accumulate until my return that will
hold up production in any way ,” and he put T ed Sears in char ge.
Even as W alt was weighed down with concerns, the cruise was giddy .
“Everyone aboa rd is a ‘somebody’ or a reporter ,” Roy wrote his staf f in Los
Angeles. “[M]y  god what a collection of snooty folk.” E dna Disney
recalled, “W e weren’ t used to the celebrities so we were having a big time.
W e were just like farmers.” On e evening at dinner they sat next to one of
the Rothschilds , who asked W alt to draw Mickey on the menu for the
president of France. But if th e Disneys felt like bumpkins among the
wealthy and elite, they had underestimated their own fame. When they