# Página 178  
Felix to sound a fter Mickey’ s triumph, Sullivan dallied, finall y losing his
contract. By the time he decided that he had to add sound to his cartoons,
that was precisely what he did —add  it to previously animated cartoons
rather than conceive of them, as W alt did, in terms of sound. “By 1930
Felix wa s doom ed,” said one o f his animators, “because he w as a silent
pantomime character . W e tried sound but it was a flop.”
Felix’ s sudden demise provided W alt Disney with his opening. At the
beginning no ef fort to catapult Mickey into stardom was too small. W alt
would even have friends call th eaters asking what time the Mic key Mouse
cartoon would show , and if they were told that there was no Mickey , he
instructed them to ask why . M ore aggressively , W alt arranged with one
downtown theater to make a ca rtoon of Mickey leading the theater ’ s live
orchestra and then being pelted  by the musicians. In exchange  the theater
booked another Mickey cartoon  and put the title on the marq uee, where
W alt cou ld have  it photographed for publicity . By August he was taking out
full-page ads in the motion pic ture trade papers declaring Mickey Mouse
“Amazingly Clever—Screamingly Funny—Perfectly Synchronized Sound
Cartoons.”
But the biggest b oost to Mickey Mouse, aside from sound itself,  occurred
not t hrough W alt’ s promotions, w hich were scattershot, but through those of
Harry W oodin, t he young manager of the Fox Dome Theater in Ocean Park,
a Lo s A ngeles s uburb. On his o wn initiative late that summer , W oodin had
or ganized a Mickey Mouse Clu b, filling his theater on Saturday  afternoons
with children who took a M ickey Mouse pledge, perfor med in an
impromptu Mickey Mouse band, and then watched Mickey Mouse
cartoons. W oodin had invited W alt to one of the matinees, and W alt said he
got “qui te a kick to see about one thousand kids cheering for MICKEY
MOUSE. ” B ut W oodin himself, not unlike W alt Disney , had lar ger
aspirations. He convinced W alt t hat what he was doing locally he could also
do nationally . W alt was encouraging. “I feel positive that a stunt like this,
combined with a Comic Strip and various toys and novelties that might be
made around MICKEY , ” W alt wrote Giegerich eagerly , “would help us in
making this series one of the biggest things that has ever come out.”