# Página 160  
cleverness and perfect synchronization. “I have never seen an audience of
hard-boiled Film  Executives laugh so much,” W alt wrote Lilly that night.
W alt was invited to visit the Universal of fice the first thing in t he morning
to discuss a deal. He immediately hurried to Powers’ s of fice to tell him the
news, and in th e heat of the moment, without consulting R oy , he did
something that he would come to regret deeply: he wound up signing an
agreement with Powers that aft ernoon empowering the mogul  to serve as
the studio’ s sales agent for two years in return for 10 percent of all the
monies W alt received.
W alt arr ived at the Universal of fice the next day , obviously beaming and
ready to  bar gain. By sheer co incidence he found Charlie Mintz sitting
patiently in the waiting room,  a reminder of what W alt was about to
vanquish. Thoug h Mintz was understandably sheepish, W alt made a point
of smiling and greeting him cordially—a gesture of magnanimity he could
now af ford. Knowing how quickly word spread in the animation
community , he was sure that Mintz had heard about the impending
Universal deal. But when W alt met with a Universal executive named
Metzger , it turned out that Universal did not want to distrib ute Mickey
Mouse, at least not just yet. Instead, without paying any comp ensation to
W alt, they wanted to put W illie  on the bill with a Universal picture, Melody
of Love,  play ing at the lavish Colony Theater , and see how the audience and
the reviewers reacted. Then, a ssuming a positive response, they would
contract for twenty-six Mickeys  in 1928 and fifty-two the next year . W alt
may hav e been disappointed, but he was receptive, and Universal prepared
an option agreement. “I guess that means Charlie is out,” he wrote Lillian
with mo re than  a tinge of vengeful gloating, noting that Min tz was still
cooling his heels in the waiting room when W alt left.
The next day , however , W alt had second thoughts. What if Universal
showed W illie  and  didn’ t mak e a deal with him? W ouldn’ t that undermine
his bar g aining position with other distributors? When W alt expressed his
sudden change of heart to Uni versal, Metzger was enraged, though W alt
just grabbed his hat and exited t he of fice as Metzger boiled. But while W alt
was waiting for the treasurer to  return his option, Metzger reappeared and
attempted to mollify him. W alt l eft Universal without signing a contract but