# Página 827  
he h ad to  be flown back to Burb ank. He was driven directly from  the airport
to St. Joseph’ s Hospital.
Lillian still clung to the hope that W alt would recover . She believed that
W alt did too, though whether he  was trying to buck up her spirit s or his own
was impossible to determine. They had even planned a trip after he regained
his stren gth. “I don’ t think he accepted it,” W ard Kimball said , “knowing
W alt, not until he closed his eyes for the last time was he ever convinced.”
As he lay in the hospital, he t old Ron Miller that he felt Miller and the
current executiv es could handle the studio in the future. W alt him self would
still read  the scripts and serve as the final authority , but when he recovered,
he woul d be devoting most of his time to Disney W orld and  especially
EPCOT . And, no doubt thinking of EPCOT , he told Miller that if he could
live for another fifteen years, he would surpass everything else he had done.
But even as he spoke confidentl y of the things he intended to do once he
was released, he was also putting his af fairs in order .  W ith the
announcement o f Disney W orld, W alt had sold WED to W alt Disney
Productions and formed a new company , Retlaw , to handle his personal
business—primarily the rights t o his name and the receipts from the trains
at D isneyland. It was a measure of the value of these ass ets that the
previous year Retlaw had received $3.75 million from WDP . W alt also held
just und er 26,00 0 shares of WD P himself and 250,000 jointly with Lillian,
which, w ith Lillian’ s own 28,000 shares, amounted to 14 percent of the
company , worth just under $20 million. (WDP’ s fiscal year had  ended with
a $ 12 million profit.) W alt had d rafted a will that March leaving 45 percent
of h is es tate to Lillian and the g irls in a family trust, another 45 percent to
the Disney Foundation in a c haritable trust, of which 95 percent was
dedicated to CalArts, and the la st 10 percent to a trust to be divided among
W alt’ s si ster and  his nieces and nephews. But he was concerned  about what
he sa w a s his daughters’ profliga cy , and while he was in the hos pital he sold
ten thou sand sha res to settle their debts. “The last thing he said  to me was,
‘Gee, I’m glad that deal went through,’” Roy told an interviewer . “That was
worrying him. The children kept coming and coming, houses had to be
bigger , e xpenses piled up. So Diane was always in debt. He got her out
before he died.”