# Página 387  
prospective selle r , that his duties  at the studio left him “little time for actual
recreation.” Be ginning in May 1938, one of his few extracurricular
activities was an annual one-week horseback ride in the California outback
near Sa nta Barbara with a cl ub of business professionals who called
themselves the Rancheros V isitadores, though another member , Disney
producer Dave Hand, observed t hat the V isitadores “might just as well have
brought along tables and chairs,” since “W alt would talk more and more
about his new ideas, always ending with directions for me to see that certain
new or dif ferent operations were ef fected or workers transferred or
revisions of schedule upon our return to ‘civilization.’” “He didn’ t know
anything else,” Hand said, “he couldn’ t talk anything else but that studio.”
While the studio remained W alt’ s priority , in the months after Snow
White,  during a brief lull in his workload, he had begun refocusing o n his
family , i n part because it was only with his family that he didn’ t have to be
“W alt Disney ,” an even more onerous obligation after his feature film’ s
success. W alt enjoyed the limelight, but he hated the public persona he was
forced t o assum e, and from his  unpretentious midwestern upb ringing, he
hated th e sense of inflated impo rtance bestowed upon celebrities, of which
he was now cer tainly one. If he  was not a man without ego, he thought of
himself as a ma n without airs, a nd so he was. Though the two-story house
at 4 053 W oking W ay was attra ctive and considerably more spacious than
the prefabricate d bandbox on L yric A venue, with three bedrooms, a
combination library–projection room–paneled bar , a swimmin g pool with
its own pavilion, and a broad lawn sweeping down the hill, it was hardly the
capacious mansion one might have imagined for W alt Disney . He lived
modestly in other ways too. U ntil he got his first Cadillac in the early
1940s, h e drove  Plymouths and Packards, and he bought his clothes of f the
rack. He liked plain food; his favorite meal was canned beans.  Nor did he
surround himsel f with the trappings of his celebrity . He told one interviewer
that he deliberately kept Disne y products out of his house because “I’ve
lived with it too much and I just didn’ t want to live with it at home.”
But as preoccup ied as he was, when it came to Diane and Sharon, he was
a doting father who sheltered them from his own fame. He enjoyed telling
how six-year -old Diane had asked him if he was W alt Disney . “Y ou know I