# Página 327  
itself on its coll egiality—rivalries less for W alt’ s favor than over who was
better at realizing his ideas. Some storymen objected that the animators
were not maximizing the material, and the story department po sted a sign:
“It was funny w hen it left here!” Among the animators themselves factions
now emer ged, which led to sni ping. Sharpsteen said that the n ew recruits
regarded themse lves and were regarded by others as “arty ,” while the old-
timers, especially lower -rated animators and assistants, were “dedicated to
getting l aughs.” The first group thought that the second wasn ’ t up to the
emotional dema nds of Snow White,  while the second thought that the first
didn’ t u nderstand entertainment. “I don’ t know what they’re looking for
around here anymore,” Burt Gillett, who had returned to the studio,
complained. “Ex perience doesn’ t seem to matter for anything. They’ve got
a bu nch of smar t kids around he re you’re not supposed to touch .” Animator
Bill Roberts called the art school graduates a “bunch of Cinderellas.”
And while the animators were  dividing into camps over the  general
approach to the feature, another division opened over Snow White herself.
Everyone at the studio recognized that the greatest visual challenge in
making the feature was drawin g the humans. The studio had  attempted
human characte rizations in The Pied Piper  in 1933, but W alt was
disappointed. When I. Klein submitted a storyboard with human characters
that fall,  T ed Sears wrote him th at “we have come to the conclusion that our
best screen values are in small cute animal characters, we haven ’ t advanced
far e nough to handle humans pr operly and make them perform w ell enough
to comp ete with real actors.” Th e next year , obviously with Snow White  in
mind, the studio attempted The Goddess of Spring,  which featured
Persephone being captured b y the devil. Again the animation was
unsatisfactory , the humans too stif f, and Les Clark felt o bligated to
apologize to W alt, who simply said, “I guess we could do bet ter the next
time.”
Not too much later W alt entrusted Ham Luske with the critical job of
designing Snow  White. By that time he had also hired Grim Na twick, who
early in 1935 tested his own prowess in drawing more humanlike figures by
animating the scene of the Cookie Girl being transformed into  the Cookie
Queen i n a Silly Symphony titled The Cookie Carnival,  a nd who, despite