# Página 418  
nickname, and he always privileged Stokowski’ s opinions, rarely
contradicting him.
But for all the c omity and real friendship between them, sometimes the
cultures clashed . At one session  W alt kept turning up the volume when the
music w as soft and turning it d own when the music was loud , prompting
Stokowski to explode, “What is loud should be loud and what is soft should
be soft! ” And if Stokowski c ould reprimand W alt, W alt wasn’ t above
poking f un at his esteemed partner . At a recording session he re marked to a
colleague that Stokowski with h is long hair looked like the comedian Harpo
Marx. Still, despite their dif fere nt places in the cultural const ellation, the
two did share a sense of entertainment and bombast. Discussing one
especially loud section of music, W alt compared it to “blowing the top of f
the mou ntain,” adding, “Stokow ski loves to do it. He would b low the top
of f the speakers on this.” Of course, so would W alt.
After tw o months of labor W al t, Stokowski, and T aylor had winnowed
the c omposition s to roughly a dozen, and on the evening of Se ptember 29,
1938, W alt conv ened fifty to sixty of his artists on the soundstag e for a two-
and-a-half-hour piano concert while he provided a running commentary on
what the  audience would be see ing in the feature. He also showed them a
rough of The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice,  whi ch, according to one attendee, had
them ch eering a nd applauding “until all hands were red.” As this observer
saw it, “It seemed indeed as if W alt and his boys had crossed  a threshold
into a truly new art form.” Clear ly inspired, W alt, Stokowski, and T aylor , in
a po stmortem the next morning,  promptly lopped of f an overture, the piano
solo, “Moto Perpetuo,” and, with startling confidence, selected the final
compositions: B ach’ s “T occata and Fugue in D Minor ,” Pierné ’ s Cydalise
and the Goat-Foot,  T chaiko vsky’ s “The Nutcracke r Suite,” Mussor gsky’ s
“Night on Bald Mountain,” Schubert’ s “A ve Maria,” Ponchielli’ s “Dance of
the Hours,” Debussy’ s “Clair d e Lune,” Stravinsky’ s The Rite  of Spring,
and of course Du kas’ s “The Sorcerer ’ s Apprentice,” for a total running time
of ju st o ver two hours. “I don’ t know what more the audience would want
for their money , do you?” W alt beamed to his collaborators. He was already
setting c rews to  work on each sequence, ending what may ha ve been the
most productive month of his life.