# Página 782  
lasting contribu tion. W alt Disney needed to do something that would
improve society , not just distra ct it. Since the early 1930s he had been
interested in the Chouinard Art Institute, and he never for got Mrs.
Chouinard’ s gen erosity in letting his animators study there when W alt
couldn’ t af ford to pay their tuition. When Mrs. Chouinard suf fe red a stroke
in th e early 195 0s and became physically unable to administer  the school,
W alt not  only supported it financially—with tens of thousands o f dollars in
donations—but also assigned Mickey Clark from Disneyland to audit the
school’ s books and do a systems survey . Clark discovered that  $12,000 of
the school’ s funds had been embezzled and that years of accounts
receivable had not been collected. Eventually , with Mrs. Chouinard’ s
agreement, W alt  sent executives from WED to run the school a nd set up a
planning committee char ged with answering, among other questions, “What
would we like to have starting from scratch?”
One of those things, W alt decided, was a new site, and as early as 1957
he a sked Harrison Price to fin d one. While Price searched, W alt’ s idea
began to expand from a new site for Chouinard to his much mor e ambitious
City of the Arts, of which Chouinard was now to be one elemen t. For a long
time W a lt had been thinking of an academy of arts to be subsid ized by the
studio for the p urpose of giving his artists the broadest possi ble creative
education. “W e could get the best instructors from all over the c ountry ,” he
had writ ten one educator in 1939 , “and it would be sort of a school for post-
graduate work.”  W alt never expressed any regrets about his own lack of
formal education ; in fact, when a new secretary transcribed a letter exactly
as h e had dictated it, W alt, realizing his own deficiencies, t old another
secretary , “Y ou have to do something about this girl. She’ s too literal!” But
as Roy later told it, “W alt was obsessed with the idea that in life you just
continually go to school. Y ou never reach any plateau of perfection.”
In the City of the Arts, W alt hop ed to combine education with another of
his p assions: community . He en visioned the city as an American version of
the G erman Bauhaus, where students could find practical applications for
their work, and he had WED lay it out as a place where students would
mingle not only with one anoth er but with the public to whom they could
sell their art. In the early 1960s he grudgingly gave up the idea of his city as