# Página 755  
discuss the new schedule for the Disneyland  show , which ha d been renamed
W alt Disney Pr esents.
When the ABC-Disney contract  came up for renewal early in 1959, the
seething tension s erupted. Roy proposed a new three-year deal for W alt
Disney P r esents, The Mickey Mouse Club,  and Zorr o.  Wh en A BC res isted,
he count ered wi th a short-term proposal excluding The Mic key Mou se Club,
in which the ne twork had lost i nterest, or , in lieu of that, a long-term deal
that would allow Disney to sell to other networks any program on which
ABC ha d not exercised its option. This last provision was especially salient
since A BC had concluded that Zorr o,  despite its high ratings, was not
profitable enoug h either and that in any case it could produce that kind of
programming on its own. Still, ABC rejected these initiatives too,
prompting Roy to write W alt, “I think they are a bunch of stinkers.”
But Roy did not settle for invective; he was also trying brinkmanship.
Even as he fle w to New Y or k to meet with ABC chairm an Leonard
Goldenson, he advised W alt that he was going to file an antitrust suit
against the network, asking for a declaratory injunction against ABC that
would p revent it from enforcing the contract and would allow  Disney to
negotiate with other networks. “In all common sense and business
reasoning,” Roy  wrote W alt on  the ver ge of his meeting, “I c an’ t believe
they will let this go to a big court fight…. They have too many things they
would rather have kept quiet and not brought out in court.”
W alt and  Roy had one more consideration beyond the televisi on series,
one that was more important than television: Disneyland. ABC had initially
invested $500,00 0 in the park. Roy wanted to use the disagreement over the
television contract to buy out ABC’ s stake, writing Goldenson that “it
seems to us you are not as eager to continue a long-term association with
Disney as you once were.” Or , as W alt would later tell it at the tenth
anniversary of Disneyland, “[M]y brother figured, ‘If we don’ t buy ’em out
now , we ’re gonna be payin’ a lot more later .’” After Roy filed h is suit, and
as the dispute dragged on for ne arly a year , he admitted that he had no idea
what AB C’ s sta ke would now be worth and that he had plucked a figure,
$7.5 million, more or less out of the air . Just an hour before closing the deal,