# Página 597  
W ith the studio in the red, W alt had only one glimmer of hop e that he
might produce another feature film to win back his audience, silence the
critics, and pump money back  into the operation. But it was a small
glimmer , because as the studio had bled animators, it had lost one of the
primary resources that might have made a feature viable. And it was small
because W alt, knowing that he no longer had the talent at the studio, was
loath to commit himself to an other feature—loath to permit  himself to
dream. In any ca se, Roy was insistent that they not gamble everything on a
feature. When W oolie Reitherm an returned to the studio after the war , he
said that W alt was “very , very teetered,” by which he meant indecisive over
whether they should make a feature or just sell the studio. At the time W alt
was pondering Cinder ella,  whi ch h e had been developing  in fits and starts
since 1938, with the obvious hop e that it could recapture the magic of Snow
White ; and he was als o looking at Alice in W onderland,  for which he had
hired English writer Aldous Huxley to do a screenplay and for which he had
floated the name of child act ress Mar garet O’Brien, not only because
O’Brien might attract an audien ce but also because she was under contract
at MGM  and her involvement might entice MGM to distribu te the film
rather than RKO, with whom the Disneys were disillusioned.
The dec ision wa s clearly less a matter of passion than of expediency . By
one acco unt, W alt, unable to choose between the projects, calle d a meeting
of his nonanimation employees, played them the songs composed for each
film, sho wed th em the storyboards, and then had them vote on which film
they preferred. They chose Cinder ella,  though Alice  was kept in production
as well so tha t the animation crews on both films were  ef fectively
competing to see which might  finish first. In the spring of 1946 W alt
received a treatment on Cinder ella  from his veteran storymen T ed Sears,
Homer Brightm an, and Harry Reeves, and he ordered storyboards with the
intention of having the film ready for a late 1949 release. W oolie
Reitherman had seen the Cinder ella  storyboards and went directly to W alt’ s
of fice to  tell him how much he  liked the film and how much potential he
thought it had. Y ears later , Reitherman said, W alt told him that “ he was sure
glad that I’d come to see him,” as if he might not have proceeded otherwise,
which o nly underscored just how uncertain the once-infallible W alt Disney
had become.