# Página 561  
felt increasingly emboldened to attack the Disney style. As director Frank
T ashlin, who left Disney for Screen Gems just before the strike, would later
put i t, “W e show ed those Disney guys that animated cartoons don’ t have to
look like a fucking kid’ s book.”
At M GM the h ead of the shorts department, Fred Quimby—a man
known for his impeccably tailored double-breasted suits, his Brahmin
accent, a nd the whif f of talc— spent his day reading the Hollywood trade
papers, g etting a  shave at the studio barbershop, taking lunch, returning to
the of fice for a nap, and then driving home at three o’clock—a routine that
one of his animators called “as inevitable as death and taxes.” But while
Quimby idled, his directors used their comparative freedom to cut loose.
T wo of them, Joseph Barbera and W illiam Hanna, teamed to create a
warring cat and mouse who in e arly 1940 were named T om and Jerry and at
the e nd of the war were starring in a series of cartoons that veered wildly
between sentime ntality and ever -increasing violence of a sort that Disney
wouldn’ t have tolerated for fe ar of of fending his audience. (Usurping
Disney , who had had a virtual lock on the Oscar in the 1930s,  Hanna and
Barbera won four consecutive Academy A wards for Best Animated Short,
from 1943 through 1946.) Anoth er director , T ex A very , who had defected to
MGM in  1942 after years at W arner Bros. and a brief tenure at  Paramount,
specialized in self-referential cartoons with a zany , unrestrained  ener gy , the
most famous of which—starting with a contemporary 1943 version of
“Little Red Riding Hood” tit led Red Hot Riding Hood —featured an
oversexed wolf of the sort, again, that would have been far too  suggestive
for W alt Disney .
While MGM was firing its raucous fusillades, W arner Bros., an even
bigger rival, took dead aim on the Disney aesthetic, not only by outgunning
it bu t by outsma rting it. The dif ference between the animation departments
at Disney and W arner Bros. couldn’ t have been greater . Where  the Disney
studio in  Burban k was sylvan an d pristine, the W arner Bros. un it on Sunset
Boulevard in Hollywood was housed in an old building the animators called
T ermite T errace  that, according to one of its denizens, “looked and stank
like the hold of a slave ship.” Its unpainted pine floors were  cured with
motor oil, the o dor of which cl ung to the animators, and the planks were