# Página 489  
near the entrance, with his coat over his arm and his hat tilted back on his
head, smiling at the strikers and making quips. But if the strike began with a
certain gaiety , it soon turned ugly and violent as both sides realized that,
O’Rourke’ s prediction notwithstanding, no settlement was imminent.
Strikers would yell at the workers entering the gate—“mighty
uncomplimentary things,” Dick Huemer remembered, “like how one guy
was an alcoholic  or something.” Jack Kinney recalled strikers letting air out
of ti res or scratc hing cars with screwdrivers as nonstrikers dro ve onto the
lot. Occasionall y there were fistfights, and Kinney said that some shots
were fire d. W alt  asked the Burba nk Police Department for fifty of ficers, but
the chief declined, saying that he couldn’ t post that many men without the
union’ s coopera tion for fear of a confrontation. Instead W alt hired fifty
former Los Angeles policemen to try to push away the pickets, until the
Burbank chief ordered them inside the studio gates. At a mass rally and
parade i n front of the studio early that June, Gunther Lessing w as hung in
ef figy , w hile the American Federation of Labor (AFL) formed a “flying
squadron” to picket theaters showing Disney films.
W ith the negotiations continuing fitfully , the union increased the
pressure. The AFL put all Disney films and products on its “ unfair” list,
soundmen refused to cross the picket line, and perhaps worst of all, the lab
technicians at T echnicolor refus ed to process Disney film unti l the studio
recognized the guild. A schedule d preview of The Reluctant Dragon,  W alt’ s
testament to studio harmony , h ad to be canceled because th e American
Newspaper Guild, which represented reporters, asked them not to attend,
and whe n W alt did release the film late that June, picket lines w ere thrown
up at the RKO and Pantages Theaters in Los Angeles while a parade of
guild sy mpathizers in New Y ork marched down Broadway to the Palace
Theater where the film was playing and set up another picket line.
Still, W a lt remained intransigen t. He continued to insist that he would
recognize the SCG only if it were elected by secret ballot, a call that the
union ag ain reje cted, this time n ot only because a majority of the workers
were on  strike—prima facie evidence that the SCG already represented the
workers—but because there was no impartial agency to conduct the election
and count the votes and because it clearly distrusted W alt to do so fairly . At