# Página 274  
Everyone knew he was bad and didn’ t give a damn. So we can whip out
three Donald Duck stories in th e time it takes us to work out one for the
Mouse.” W alt himself agreed, sa ying that Mickey was funny only when the
situation was funny , while intem perate Donald was inherently funny . “The
duck can  blow his top and comm it mayhem,” W alt once told an interviewer .
Mickey couldn’ t.
Nash, whose quacking voice h ad inspired the character , credited W alt
with ex tending Donald’ s rang e and turning him into a personality by
suggesting that Nash try being angry in the duck voice or lau ghing in it.
Jack Ha nnah, who would later direct many of the Donald Duck cartoons,
said that “Donald could be anything. He had every emotion a human being
had. He could be cute, mischievous, go from warm to cool at any moment.
Y ou could half kill him and he’d come right back. He instigated trouble.
Not mean, but he always saw  a chance to have fun at other people’ s
expense.” In short, Donald was the prime example of W alt’ s caricatured
reality and the first Disney star to be born full-blown from that aesthetic.
Now tha t he was beginning to move from featured player into leading
man, the  gangly  duck that Art Babbitt and Dick Huemer had designed for
The W ise Little Hen  was shortened, softened, and rounded by animator Fred
Spencer , just as Mickey had been, to make him visually cuter and more
expressive. By 1935 he was bei ng featured in his own series of books, and
by t he fall of that year , though Donald had yet to star in his own cartoon,
W alt wa s already fretting that Nash, who had been of fered a three-year
contract extensio n at $55 a week, might try to strong-arm them. “If we start
using the duck character a lo t,” W alt memoed Roy , “we don’ t want
Clarence to get any inflated ideas of his importance here .” Then he
attempted to tamp his own worries by saying that if Nash were to leave the
studio a nd voice  a duck elsewh ere, the Disneys could probably sue. In the
end, Nash signed the contract, and Donald finally got a starring role, in
Donald and Pluto,  the following year , and then a full series of his own; but
even before that V ariety  observed of Donald’ s appearance in another
Mickey cartoon, “Again it’ s manifest how fast growing is th e vogue of
Donald Duck, the volubly irat e gander who bids fair to par Mickey as
Disney’ s favorite creation.” T o most Americans, Donald already had.