# Página 61  
received what for him was terr ibly disappointing news: an armistice had
been sig ned end ing the war . “I’ ve never seen a sicker looking  bunch than
we were,” he later recalled. “Everybody else was celebrating the end of the
war , but all we knew was that w e’d missed out on something big.” W alt just
assumed that he would now be sent home, but the company was roused at
three on e morning and told that fifty of them would be going to France after
all to  aid in the o ccupation. W alt always claimed that his was th e last of the
fifty nam es calle d and that he had gone back to sleep in despair at not being
able to leave fo r Europe, when his compatriots awakened hi m with the
announcement.
The nex t mornin g the fifty were  heading for France on a converted cattle
boat, the V aubin,  loaded with ammunition. The enlistees were so exhilarated
that they  joked about the possibility of being blown up. They arrived in
Cherbour g on November 30, found the harbor clogged by a sunken boat,
and stea med to Le Havre, where they disembarked and were herded onto a
train for  Paris, transferring to tru cks there for the trip to a Red Cross outpost
in S t. Cy r , near V ersailles. It was not an auspicious introduction to France.
The foo d was execrable. The nights were cold, and the châteaux in which
they billeted were unheated. W a lt had to wrap himself in newspapers before
pulling the blanket around him . St. Cyr was also dangerous:  a group of
dischar ged Alge rian soldiers had been or ganized into a labor g ang nearby ,
and there were o ccasional knifin gs. But amid it all W alt, small, baby-faced,
and looking younger , celebrated  his seventeenth birthday shortly after his
arrival, toasting it with a round of grenadine for the younger enlistees and
cognac f or the older ones, for w hich he was forced to pawn a pa ir of shoes,
and the next w eek the outfit was trucked to Paris to chee r President
W oodrow W ilson’ s appearance at the peace conference. W alt s himmied up
a tree to get a glimpse of him.
Though France was recovering from devastation and death, W alt, who
before h is enlist ment had never been farther west than Colorado or farther
east tha n Mississippi, seemed to regard his Red Cross duty  as another
escape. After indoctrination in  St. Cyr , he was transferred to the Hotel
Regina near the Louvre in Paris and then to Evacuation Hospital No. 5 on
the Long champs racecourse at Auteuil, where the infield was laid out with