# Página 141  
with another distributor if Mintz proved intractable, that he had Lillian
accompany him on what they regarded as a “second honeymoon.”
They arrived the third week in February to a bitterly cold and blustery
city and  found their reception there just as chilly . W ith two Os wald prints
under one arm and a book of clip pings under the other , W alt had  gone to see
Fred Quimby at Metro-Goldwyn -Mayer with the hope, at the very least, of
getting a competing bid to put p ressure on Mintz, but Quimby told him that
“cartoons [were]  on the wane” and said he was not interested. (W alt, putting
the best  spin on the conversation, told Roy that Quimby was just playing
hardball and said he would follow up in a few days.) T emporarily rebuf fed,
W alt headed directly from MGM  to Mintz’ s of fice to continue negotiations,
but Min tz was also playing har dball. Not only did he not of fer to increase
the advance, he was now of fering only the negative costs, which he pegged
at ro ughly $1,400 a film, a fifty-fifty split of profits, and “substantial
salaries,” which suggested that W alt was not a studio owner in h is own right
but a subcontrac tor for Mintz. W alt, aggrieved by the terms, which he no
doubt feared would force him to compromise on quality aga in and cede
more control, immediately contacted his old mentor Jack Alicoate, a
“reserved and dignified” gentleman, in W alt’ s words, who had helped
broker th e origin al deal with Ma r garet W inkler for the Alices an d who now
edited the trade paper Film Daily .  Alic oate advised W alt to continue dealing
with Mintz, but as a hedge he set up meetings for W alt with M etro again
and Fox.
“BREAK WITH  CHARLIE LOOMING,”  W al t wi red Roy  later that day .
Before a ny rupt ure could be an nounced, though, and resorting  to a bit of
chicanery of his own to thwart  Mintz, he asked Roy to have an attorney
draw up “ironclad” year -long contracts for the staf f with two option years.
“ALL C ONTRACTS WITH ME PERSONALL Y THEREFORE MY
SIGNA TURE NECESSAR Y BEFORE CONTRACT IS C OMPLETE
ASSURING US PROTECTION WITHOUT RESPONSIBILITY .”  W alt
warned that the contracts should be “held in readiness” until he gave Roy
the word. And he closed reassuringly: “DON’T BE ALARMED
EVER YTHING OK.”