# Página 453  
As i t turned out , March 1 was a historic day not only for Bambi  but for
the entir e studio : the beginning of a changing of the guard. What W alt had
come to realize through Bambi, Dumbo, Fantasia,  and  eve n The Reluctant
Dragon  was that there could no longer be a  Dis ney style si nce no single
style cou ld fit all the various pro jects that W alt had in mind. For years W alt
had trained his artists in a method of drawing that kept inchin g closer to
realism, and he had tried to impose that technique and goal on everyone;
accepting these standards had become a condition of working a t the studio.
He had always f elt that animation had to evolve, and in Bambi  W alt clearly
felt he had finally found something dif ferent, something exciting, even if he
couldn’ t quite put his finger on it. “This is opening up something here,” he
enthused to the Bambi  ani mators. “This is a new styl e,” one to which he
said he would assign his very be st animators like Davis, Thomas, Kahl, and
Larson. “I think this is going to be one hell of a big step forward,” he told
them.
At the same time he had come to understand that a film like Dumbo  and
certainly the shorts didn’ t require the subtlety of Bambi ; demanding it
would have been not only ex pensive but counterproductive. The less
experienced ani mators and the animators who didn’ t evolve and whose
technique wasn ’ t as refined could be assigned to these p ictures. By
introducing the idea of dif feren t styles rather than a studio style, W alt had
also created a pecking order not  just between the supervising an imators and
the rest of the staf f but between the first tier of supervising animators and a
second t ier . Brig ht young animators would now be in the studio vanguard.
Some of  the old-timers, including Norm Fer guson and Fred Moore, who
had been  the stars of W alt Disne y Productions just a few years earlier , when
the studio first embarked on re alism, were relegated to a sec ondary role
because they couldn’ t master the Bambi  style. As W alt now said of
Fer guson, the man who had practically invented psychology in the animated
cartoon, “He needs broader things.”
W ith the story c rew having conquered the narrative and the animators the
style, W alt was confident enou gh to show a reel of Bambi  to Ban k of
America executi ves late that Ju ne, and on Saturday , July 6, Joe Rosenber g
came to the st udio to view t he footage. Roy and W alt we re courting