# Página 10  
bequeathed but also in the conver gence of high art and low that he ef fected.
“[I]t ha ppened,” Hughes wro te, “when, in Fantasia,  Mickey Mouse
clambered up to the (real) p odium and shook hands with the (real)
conductor Leopold Stokowski.”
Beyond his animations, Disney changed the shape of American
recreation with his Disneyland park. Obviously there had been amusement
parks before Disneyland, but they had been grab-bag collections of various
rides, ga mes, and shows. Disney reconceptualized the amusement park as a
full imaginative experience, a theme  park , ra ther than a series of div ersions,
and just as his animation revised  graphic design, his park eventu ally revised
urban design. Detractors called the ef fect “Disneyfication,” meaning the
substitution of a synthetic world  for a real one, but the urban planner James
W . Rous e commended Disneyland as the “greatest piece of urba n design in
the U nited States” for the way it managed to serve its function  and satisfy
its guests, and architecture critic Peter Blake wrote, “[I]t seems unlikely that
any American school of architecture will ever again graduate a student
without first requiring him to tak e a field trip to Orlando, [Florida],” the site
of W alt Disney W orld Resort, the East Coast sequel to Disneyland. In time
Disneyland, with its faux environments and manipulated experiences,
would become a metaphor for a whole new consciousness in  which, for
better or  worse, the fabricated was preferred over the authentic and the real
could be  pur ged  of its threats. As Robert Hughes put it, “[H]is a chievement
became a lar ge shift in the limits of unreality .”
Disney’ s influen ce also impregnated the American mind in subtler , less
widely r ecognized ways. As he reinvented animation and amusement, he
changed Americ ans’ view of their own history and values. In  live-action
films like So D ear to My Heart, Old Y eller ,  and Pollyanna,  he refin ed and
exploited a lode of nostalgia that became identifiable enough to be called
“Disneyesque,” and in others like Davy Cr ockett, W estwar d Ho the
W agons!,  and Johnny T r emain  he fash ioned an American pa st of rugged
heroes and bold accomplishme nt that for generations turned history into
boyhood adventure. By the end of his life it was the saccharine values of the
nostalgic films and the sturdy patriotism of the historical ones  as much as
the cartoons that one associated with Disney and that made him, along with