# Página 184  
the w ay most an imators now worked—providing the key or extreme poses
and letting an assistant fill in the rest of the action. Iwerk s, however ,
believed that he animated best when he animated straight ahead , and he had
no desire to change.
Finally , and perhaps most impor tant, Iwerks had come to feel that he had
been living in W alt’ s shadow , and he resented not receiving the credit he felt
he d eserved for the cartoons, whose title card read, “A W alt Di sney Comic
by U b Iwerks.” Iwerks’ s wife  recalled attending a party where a boy
approached W alt with a pen an d paper and asked him if he would draw
Mickey . W alt promptly handed the paper to Iwerks, ordered him to do the
drawing, and said that he wou ld sign it. Iwerks, usually im perturbable,
snapped, “Draw your own Mickey ,” and left. Indeed, Iwerks was so
resentful of the credit denie d him that, obviously under Powers’ s
encouragement, after he left he threatened to sue the Disneys for Mickey
Mouse o n copyright grounds. “If Ub’ s action reaches crew ,” W alt wrote
Roy from New Y ork, “advise you ridicule it as foolish as he is being used as
a cat’ s paw by Powers and may never make any pictures.”
When Iwerks visited Roy’ s of fice three days after his resig nation to
explain himself, he insisted that he hadn’ t known that Giegerich was
actually representing Powers u ntil he’d received the contract just days
earlier .* This mollified Roy slightly—“W e know how gullible and easily
led Ub is, and we have a good dose of how two-faced Charlie Giegerich and
P .A. are ,” he wrote W alt—but he still expressed how “deeply shocked and
hurt” he was at Iwerks’ s betrayal, and he rescinded his $5,000 of fer . Now
that Pow ers was involved, he w ould give Iwerks only $2,920, payable in
one year , which Iwerks accepted as settlement for all his claims. The
alternative, Roy warned, was to dissolve their partnership, which would
force Powers to open his books and would undoubtedly ignite his anger at
Iwerks. As Iwerks left Roy’ s of fice, he expressed his regrets and said he
intended to write W alt because, he told Roy , he did not want W alt “to feel
hard aga inst him—that he would never have gone into this had he any idea
it wo uld turn out as it has.” For W alt’ s part, though he and Iwerk s had never
been personally close, he nevertheless, according to one acquaintance,
“obviously love d that guy ,” and  when a young animator joine d the studio