# Página 587  
had bee n born at James McGuinness’ s dinner party . Later tha t night at a
meeting at the Beverly W ilshi re Hotel attended by some tw o hundred
members of the film community , director Sam W ood was elected president
of th e new or ganization and se t designer Cedric Gibbons, writer/director
Norman T aurog , and Disney were elected vice presidents. In a  declaration
of principles, the MP A proclaimed: “W e find ourselves in sharp revolt
against a rising tide of Comm unism, Fascism and kindred beliefs” and
vowed t o do battle against anyone who tried to “divert the lo yalty of the
screen from the free America that gave it birth,” though it was really
Communism, no t any of the other beliefs, that exercised them , including
W alt Disney .
The next month the MP A escala ted the battle. It wrote a letter t o Senator
Robert Reynolds of North Carolina accusing the film industry of harboring
Communists and  using as proof  the fact that people like W alt Disney had
felt the need to form an or ganiz ation to combat the threat. Reyn olds placed
the letter in the Congr essional Recor d,  though the real purpose of the MP A
was not to get  Congress’ s attention so much as to spur C ongress to
investigate. The re had even bee n rumors that Representative Martin Dies,
the chairman of the House Co mmittee on Un-American Activities, was
retiring so that he could become  the head of the MP A. Up to this point there
had been  a good deal of intram ural squabbling between the Right and the
Left in Hollywood. But with the Reynolds letter the MP A—and W alt
Disney—had crossed a line. They weren’ t simply attacking Communists;
they were attacking their own industry .
The Left, which had so often ri diculed Hollywood in the past even as it
was tak ing its money , ironically leaped to the industry’ s defense. The
Screen W riters Guild called a meeting at the Roosevelt Hotel on May 2 at
which thirty-eight unions passed  a resolution “reaf firming confidence in the
achievements of  the motion picture industry” and promising to protect it
against “irresponsible and unwarranted attacks.” (The FBI, which was
monitoring the entire situation at the invitation of the MP A, called the
movement Communist-inspired.) Others accused the MP A of proto-fascism.
“[T]he public pronouncements of the more active members of  the M.P .A.
are modeled strictly along orthodox Red-baiting and witch-hunting lines,”