# Página 761  
draft put it, “apartment houses, dormitories, duplexes and single-unit
dwellings” within the immediate environs to accommodate the students,
faculty , and employees of the s chools. He was already scouting potential
sites in the Los Angeles area when he heard that the architect W illiam
Pereira, who had briefly worke d on Disneyland, was planning to develop
the Mou ntain Park section. W alt suggested they mer ge their plans, of fering
to take “one enti re village or val ley area and develop it from start to finish,”
and add ing that he hoped to “m ake this city into the internation ally known
tourist a nd entertainment attract ion and educational center which it must be
to be  suc cessful.” By this time h e was soliciting investors and s ounding out
foundations for grants to creat e what would be not a faux utopia, like
Disneyland, but at long last a real one.  
At the time there was one man who had dreams and an ego as lar ge as W alt
Disney’ s: Robert Moses. Y ale- and Oxford-educated, Moses had been the
über -bureaucrat of New Y ork since the 1920s, when the young man gained
the favo r of Governor Alfred E. Smith. Using a series of political
appointments at  both the state and local levels, Moses, big and bullheaded,
was chie fly resp onsible for the planning of New Y ork City and its suburbs
in th e automobile age. He built Jones Beach on Long Island and other
parks, plowed highways through neighborhoods, erected bridges and dug
tunnels, hoisted  edifices of public housing, and even cleared the land for
Lincoln Center in the middle of Manhattan. Now Moses had been appointed
to h ead the New  Y ork W orld’ s Fair , scheduled for 1964, and early in 1960
he s ought W alt Disney’ s help.  Moses had set aside eight acres on the
fair grounds for what he called a “children’ s village”—or , as V ariety  termed
it, a sort of perm anent eastern Disneyland. Who better to design the park
than W alt?
It wasn’ t the first time that a w orld’ s fair had come calling. W alt had
produced a four -minute Mickey Mouse cartoon for the Nabisco pavilions at
the San Francisco and New Y ork W orld’ s Fairs in 1939, and the coordinator
of th e U nited States pavilion at the 1958 W orld’ s Fair in Brussel s had asked