# Página 99  
animation is extremely good,” H . A. Boushey , Universal’ s general manager ,
wrote Kloepper on April 4, “but we do not see how we can place it on our
release program at the present time.” Another distributor responded that
“we do not believe we would have any trouble whatsoever placing your
‘Laughlets’ with one of the bet ter distributors on a percentage basis,” but
like all the nibbles this one came to naught.
W ith the Laf flets gambit havin g failed, W alt now hatched ye t another
plan of aesthetic  bravado. For several months—inspired, he said, by a series
created b y New Y ork animators Max and Dave Fleischer entitle d Out of the
Inkwell, in which cartoon fig ures entered a real world—he had been
thinking about a live action–animation combination, though he wrote one
putative animator that doing so was “very trying and expensiv e” and had
“not proven profitable, as yet.” In March, once again running out of money
and alternatives , he decided t o ignore those impediments and attempt
another series that he thought might, in his words, “crack the m arket” and
save the company . “W e have ju st discovered something new and clever in
animated cartoons!” he gushingly wrote a number of distributors,
describing his innovation as a v ariation on Out of the Inkwell, “but of an
entirely dif feren t nature, using a cast of live child actors who ca rry on their
action on cartoon scenes with  cartoon characters.” He anticipated one-
reelers, roughly seven minutes i n duration, to be released every  two weeks
or once a month.
Specifically , the series would feature a little girl named Alice, like Alice
in W onderland, who entered a cartoon world and interacted with cartoon
characters. For the lead role h e chose a precocious blond fo ur -year -old
named V ir ginia Davis, a child actress whom he had seen in an
advertisement m ade by the Film  Ad Co. for W arneker ’ s Bread. (Davis later
said tha t she ate a piece of bread slathered with jam, smiled broadly , and
smacked her lips.) He of fered no salary—he did not have any t o give—but
promised her parents five percent of any money he received for the film,
which he had titled Alice’ s W onderland.  The deal evidently included the use
of the Davises’ home as the set.