# Página 196  
thought of him i n very dif ferent terms—as Douglas Fairbanks. “He was the
superhero of his day ,” Iwerks s aid of Fairbanks, “always winning, gallant
and swa shbuckling.” As for Mickey , “He was never intended to  be a sissy .
He w as always an adventurous character…. I had him do naturally the sort
of thing Doug Fairbanks would do.” Thus Mickey Mouse was born between
two conceptions—between Chaplin and Fairbanks, between the scamp and
the adventurer , between sympathy and vicariousness, between self-pity that
translated into power through ingenuity and the bold assertion of power
itself. Fr om the first he was an  unstable creation, often veering from one
pole to another , in one cartoon to  the next, Plane Crazy  to Steamboat W illie,
which meant that he could satisfy a wide spectrum of demands but that he
would always be on the ver ge of self-destructing. That is why the early
Mickey seems so random and rootless, less a character than a visual icon.
He does not know who he is.
In th e en d, thoug h he was patter ned after both Chaplin and Fair banks, he
would fi nd his identity elsewher e. He would find it as a projection of W alt
himself. W alt identified intensely , almost passionately , with his  creation, as
if Micke y were not just his brainchild but an extension of him. “W alt and
Mickey were so simpatico, ” Lillian said, “they almost seemed like they had
the same identity .” Playwright, film critic, and later presidential
speechwriter Robert Sherwood, meeting W alt in 1931, wrote, “Whenever he
mentions Micke y Mouse a note of reverent awe is evident in his voice. He
loves tha t weird  little animal as any mother would love her favorite child.”
Animator Les Clark said that “W alt was Mickey and Mickey was W alt,”
observing that even Mickey’ s gestures were copied from W alt’ s when he
performed Mick ey at story meetings, and one of W alt’ s most frequent story
criticisms was, “I don’ t think Mickey would act that way .” Y ears later W alt
insisted, in an expression of just  how bound to Mickey he was, t hat “as long
as th ere is a Disney studio, there’ll be Mickey Mouse cartoons” because “I
can’ t live without him!”
In some sense, twenty-eight-year -old W alt Disney , whose previous
cartoons had purveyed a discret e world but not an attitude, found his voice
in Mick ey Mouse. Mickey’ s intrepid optimism, his pluck, his naïveté that
often go t him into trouble, and his determination that usually got him out of