# Página 606  
blueprints and then begin work on an inch-and-a-half scale model of the
Central Pacific 173 engine, a pr ototype of which he had seen at the Golden
Gate International Exposition o n the same trip. As Roger Broggie told it,
W alt had  shown  up in the shop at seven-fifteen the morning after returning
from the  exposition and told Bro ggie to get to work on the train.  Meanwhile
W alt entrusted W illiam Jones w ith finding him a scale locomo tive engine
“if it can be had at a reasonable price.”
But W al t’ s plan was not simply  to purchase a train or even to have one
made for him at the studio to his specifications. The train, like the
animation, was to be all-consum ing—his escape from the animations, as the
animations had been intended a s an escape from reality . In ef fect, the train
would be his j ob. And so W alt was going to make  the train himself
alongside Dick Jones, Eddie Sar geant, and Roger Broggie. At night for
three or four hours at a time an d for long stretches on weekend s, he began
visiting the studio machine sho p, located near the studio entrance in what
were cal led “box cars,” where Broggie had set up a workbench for him and
taught him how to use the jeweler ’ s lathe, a miniature drill p ress, and a
milling machine. He would go down there on Saturdays in his work-clothes,
often ac companied by Duchess or by Sharon, who would play in his of fice
or ride her bicycle or drive her father ’ s car slowly around the lot while he
worked. (W alt had taught her to  drive there.) Just as often he w as the only
one in the shop. Fabricating the train became his new passion.
And if he love d the model trains, he also loved this uncom plicated,
democratic process of making them—a process in which he was just a
“rookie machin ist,” as he called himself, and in which the re were no
expectations on him and no dem ands. “Y ou know , it does me some good to
come down here and find out I don’ t know everything,” he told Roger
Broggie. It was like the early days at the studio when it was still fun. Ollie
Johnston would  remember occasions working side by side with W alt on
their trains and W alt saying, “Hey , I think I found out where they keep the
hardwood,” and  of f they woul d go to find scraps of lumber . And W alt
enjoyed the craft—the sense of finally doing productive work again and
doing it with pe rfection the way he had done the early features. Indeed, the
detail work was such that it demanded perfection. He would carry his