# Página 703  
layout and the way guests w ere subtly directed to destinations, the
cleanliness, the ef ficiency with which crowds were queued up to wait for
attractions, the weather , even th e sounds of the park—all cont ributed to a
sense of absolute well-being. Publisher W alter Annenber g, after visiting the
park, said that if he were forced to reduce it to a “single descriptive word I
would say wholesomeness.”
Wholesomeness was certainly part of it, part of the perfec tion that
Disneyland seem ed to convey and the cocoon of joy it provided. But in the
final an alysis, the deepest appeal of Disneyland may have been less the
perfection itself than the construction of it, as it had been in the Disney
animations whe re the theme of responsibility meshed with the act of
creation. Whatever else Disney land did, it gave its visitors not just the
vicarious thrills of the characters whose personas they assumed on the rides
or their sense of  triumph; it gav e them the vicarious power of the man who
had crea ted it all: W alt Disney . E verything in W alt Disney’ s life had pointed
to th is p ark. All his ef forts, a New Y orker  contributor observed, had reached
their climax in Disneyland, “where, in this most elaborate of the Master ’ s
animated productions, his live public has been fitted into the cartoon frame
to play an aesthe tic as well as an economic role.” At Disneyland the guests
were pa rt of the overall atmosphere of happiness, and they reveled in their
own manipulati on because it was so well executed, because it was so
comfortable and reassuring, an d perhaps most of all, because it was so
empowering to know that someo ne could actually have achieved this. In the
end, it was not the control of wonder that made Disneyland so
overwhelming t o its visitors; lik e so much else in W alt Disney’ s career , it
was the wonder of control.
V
W alt Dis ney , who had been disa ppointed so many times in his life, was not
disappointed by his park. When one of his animated feature s had been
completed, however far short it may have fallen of his expectations, there
was noth ing he could do, which  was why he had developed the ability to
disengage from his projects as s oon as they were finished. “Y o u’re always