# Página 92  
But it was not a s a medical pra ctitioner that John Cowles was primarily
known in Kansas City . It was as a fixer . From his assoc iation with
Pender gast he knew people, and people knew he was politically connected,
which is why they sought his help. He was also regarded hig hly for his
financial acumen and even advised the First National Bank on investments.
He was usually on the lookout for new investment schemes, which is no
doubt how he h ooked up with Robert Disney . W alt never said how he
convinced Cowles to invest, though Uncle Robert’ s intercession probably
helped, and Cowles’ s son claimed that his father could be very generous
with sup plicants: “Dad was always helping people out.” Those first months
the doctor provided $2,500 under his wife’ s signature.
Realizing he did not have enou gh money to procrastinate, W alt moved
quickly . He rented two small, s partan rooms on the top floor of the two-
story McConahy  Building on T hirty-first Street just a few bloc ks from his
old house on Be llefontaine. W ithin weeks he had the Motion Pictur e News,
a pr ominent film trade paper , a nnounce his company’ s launch:  “They will
produce Laugh -O-Gram animated cartoon comedies which will be
cartooned by W alter E. Disney ,” though the ad also claimed that he had
been ma king fil ms for the Newman Theater for two years and that he had
already complet ed six films—neither of which was true. That s ame month
he bought a new  tripod, and in July he took out his first adver tisement, in
the News,  promising a series of twelve films, presumably the fairy tales.
At the same tim e he was hirin g. Hugh Harman, Fred’ s brother , joined
W alt as an anim ator , as did W alt’ s old trainee, Rudy Ising, and  two others:
Carmen Maxwe ll, a junior colle ge student who was hired when  he saw the
Laugh-O-Gram sign in the of fice window and applied for a job, and a
young man named Lorey T agu e. W illiam “Red” L yon, who had run the
camera at the Fi lm Ad Co., became the camera operator at Laug h-O-Gram.
An anim ator , Otto W alliman, joined them later . W alt also secured the
services of a bu siness manager , Adolph Kloepper , and a salesman, Leslie
Mace. A few months later his old friend W alt Pfeif fer , who had continued
his art training after high school at the Art Institute in Chic ago before
returning to Kansas City , became Laugh-O-Gram’ s scenario editor , which,