# Página 421  
being cute, you can’ t be too cru el to them”—thinking that centaurs might
serve just as we ll, and he bega n to doubt whether the music itself fit the
images he had in mind. Whe n Dick Huemer suggested that they hire
Stravinsky to write something, W alt countered, “Those guys don’ t work that
way ,” though he was so confident of his ef forts that he told Huemer he
could foresee the time when composers would write for anima tion as they
wrote for the stage.
For “Dance of t he Hours” W alt, citing the illustrations of Heinr ich Kley ,
imagined a ballet of animals, w ith each group representing a dif ferent time
of day—ostriches (dawn), hippopotamuses (day), elephants (evening), and
alligators (night )—but he objected to any “obvious slapstick type of stuf f”
to which the animals might lend themselves. “I think the main thing we
must kee p in mind is that the an imals are serious,” W alt told his  story crew .
“They are not clowning.” He wanted real personality . “It could be some big
fat p erson up th ere trying to do a ballet. That’ s what we are going to drive
for , and we will have animators who can give us that.” By November W alt
was having young Marjorie Belcher , who had served as the live model for
Snow White, perform on film to give the animators suggestions, though
W alt himself seemed inspired  too, tossing of f ideas with  the same
excitement and detail as he had on Snow White.  V is ualizing a dance
between a hippo and the alligator , he said, “I think there at the end the guy
finally just lets her drop, boom, and it bounces everyth ing in the
background…. Y ou see the expr ession on her face—blank and i mmediately
she goes into one of those poses.”
“The N utcracker Suite” was harder , in part because it had several
sections. At first, W alt had the id ea of fading in from Stokowski leading his
orchestra to his leading an orc hestra of bugs in a kind of overture. That
would lead into a March Processional, the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy
with dew drops, and a Russian D ance with turtles that would se gue into the
Chinese Dance featuring “lizard s with flowers on their heads like Chinese
hats,” who perform before a m andarin frog, and the Arab D ance using
“little a nimals.” The finale would be a Flower Ballet following the
blossoms through the seasons. As W alt described it, a “ballerina comes out
—a grac eful, be autiful girl—and  she puts a little sex into the damn thing….