# Página 82  
had left to run  an animation school in New Y ork but wh o returned
occasionally to Kansas City , a nd he may have taken a correspondence
course o f fered by a prominent New Y ork animator named Bill Nolan. T o
improve the quality of his work, W alt studied motion as well as technique.
Iwwerks had taken out from the library a copy of Eadweard M uybridge’ s
photographs of animal movemen ts so that he could trace a greyh ound’ s gait
from the photos for an ad he w as assigned, and W alt wound u p making a
photostat of the book for his ow n collection. Of the greyhound a d, Iwwerks
later said it was “the best animation scene I ever did, before and since.”
And W alt began attending nig ht classes again at the Kansas City Art
Institute with Iwwerks and other colleagues from the Slide Co.
Still, the hours d rawing at the Sl ide Co., and the hours more drawing and
shooting with the camera afterward in the backyard garage, a nd the time
studying Lutz, Muybridge, and Nolan, and the nights at the A rt Institute,
were not enough for him. He was besotted with animation. He needed more.
By t he s ummer the Slide Co. had moved to a new , more spacious building
at 2449  Charlo tte Street, a l ittle over a mile southwest of the old
headquarters, in what was called the hospital district, and had changed its
name to the Kan sas City Film A d Co. to reflect the shift in business from
slides to  movies . W ith the passi on of a convert, W alt attempted  to wheedle
Cauger i nto trying cel animation, but Cauger was a traditionalist. Rebuf fed,
W alt decided to pursue it on his  own, and late that summer or early in the
fall he recruited  Fred Harman, the older brother of Hugh Harman, one of
W alt’ s Film Ad Co. coworkers, to team with him on drawing an animation
they called “The Little Artist” in which an artist and his easel came to life.
This wa s just a little learning ex ercise, but if W alt was obsessed, he was
also amb itious. In his book Lut z suggested that would-be animators think
topically: “For news picture reels it has been found judicious for variety’ s
sake, as well a s for business reasons, to combine with the m cartoons
satirizing topics  of the hour .” W alt and Harman had already made one live-
action film they titled Kansas City Journal Scr een Review ,  apparently
hoping to interest the newspape r in a film adjunct. Though that did not pay
of f, W alt, no doubt inspired by Lutz’ s suggestion, decided to try making a
short editorial cartoon and se e if he could sell it to the three-theater