# Página 381  
released to the seaside towns that summer , the theaters were forced to take
reservations three weeks in advance, eventually instituting special morning
performances to satisfy the demand. “They came in their hundreds,”
reported The New Y ork T imes,  “little girls with spades and pails, little boys
in bathing trunks, mothers with the family shopping, young sophisticates
with win d-blown sets and the ne west shade in sun tan.” It grossed $155,000
at on e fi rst-run theater in Paris and over $1 million when it had completed
its second run in the city . In twenty-one weeks at one Sydney , Australia,
theater , it took in $132,000. When censors in Holland forbade children
under fourteen from seeing it b ecause they thought it too gru esome, the
youngsters stag ed an impromptu nationwide boycott of a D utch Snow
White c hocolate bar , and the c ensors relented. By the time it finished its
runs in 1939, it h ad played in forty-nine countries and had been dubbed into
ten languages.
But the phenom enon didn’ t stop at the theater door . There were, by one
account, 2,183 dif ferent Snow White  pro ducts, and 16.5 million dri nking
glasses alone were sold. W alt launched a Snow White  comic strip and
commissioned a  play based on the movie, though it was finally decided that
theater owners might object to t he competition, and the play was scotched.
Prompted in part by the success of Snow White,  the studio inaugurated a
national radio program in January that was quickly canceled because, W alt
said, “if  I listen in and the thing isn’ t right I’m all upset and worried.” W alt
even co llected $15,000 by selling original cels from the film at the
Courvoisier Art  Gallery in San Francisco. When Kay Kamen reported as
early as May 19 38 that $2 million worth of Snow White  toys had been sold
and another $2 million worth of Snow White  handkerchiefs, The New Y ork
T imes  m errily  editorialized that animation might be a way out of the
Depression.
Then there were the accolades. Already in January , W alt was
investigating whether Snow White  m ight qualify for an Academy A ward
and was  told that “it is quite with in the bounds of probability tha t the A ward
Committee migh t consider it for  special honors.” It had already been named
one of the outstanding pictures o f the year by the National Board of Review
and had won a special citation from the New Y ork Film Critics. When the