# Página 673  
same time, W alt told his staf f,  he didn’ t want to stint on quality . They
shouldn’ t recycl e so many Disney cartoons and movies that t he audience
would “ think of the show as a bu nch of old Disney material.” The programs
had to be worthy of the Disney brand: “W e are honestly trying to see how
many [shows] we could give that we would be proud of and that would be
good for Disney . W e don’ t want to cheat on this.” And he exhorted them to
“establish a format and see wha t we can do with it,” which on ly revealed
that they hadn’ t yet fully devised a format.
Three da ys later , when W alt me t with ABC president Robert Kintner and
other ABC executives to descr ibe the program he had in mind, he was
clearly vamping. “Disneyland actually is the format of the Disneyland
show ,” W alt said, no doubt r elying on Bill Cottrell’ s old outline. “It
becomes a real place springing out of what we present on the  TV screen.
The public is go ing to see it on TV and actually feel they are a  part of it.”
But asid e from Disneyland itself, he didn’ t say exactly what it was that the
public would be seeing. He cou ldn’ t even commit to the twent y-six shows
anticipated in the contract. “W e have to get or ganized first,” he told Kintner .
That wa s an understatement. W ith the program, Disneyland,  scheduled to
debut in October , so as to give W alt a full season to boost the park before its
opening, the staf f scrambled. Though W alt was nominally involved in
signing of f on ideas, his main role was playing “W alt Disney” and meeting
with potential sponsors to convince them to advertise on the program. The
real leaders of the ef fort were production manager Bill Anderson and a
former press agent and current writer -producer at the studio named Bill
W alsh, who had become W alt’ s  television maven when W alt h appened to
meet him in the hall shortly before the Coca-Cola special and told him,
“Y ou—you be the producer of TV .” W alsh protested that he knew nothing
about television.  T o which W alt snapped, “Who does?” T ogether W alsh and
Anderson raced  to make a presentation to ABC that April, formatting a
program that was essentially a  potpourri of old cartoons and  live-action
clips, documentary footage of the construction of Disneyland, behind-the-
scenes s tories of the latest Disney productions, and made-for -TV cartoons
and live-action films. Kintner pronounced himself “delighted,” though this
may have been a matter of trust in W alt Disney as much as anything else.