# Página 573  
picking up a record of the singer Bert W illiams for him when W alt was in
New Y ork because W alt knew Baskett was a fan of W illiams. More, when
Baskett was in ill health, W alt began a campaign to get him an honorary
Academy A ward  for his performance, saying that he had work ed “almost
wholly without direction” and had devised the characterizatio n of Remus
himself. Thanks to W alt’ s ef forts, Baskett did get his honorary Oscar at the
1948 ceremonies, then died a few months later , after which  his widow
wrote W alt thankfully that W a lt had been a “friend in deed and [we]
certainly have been in need.”  
Even with Song of the South  under his belt, W alt Disney was restless. “Let’ s
do anything  to get some action,” he said he told Roy during this period.
Restlessness wa s his congenital condition, expressing his fea r that if he
wasn’ t moving forward, he wa s moving backward. His early features—
from Snow White  through Bambi —spoke to maturity and the assumption of
responsibility; they didn’ t address what happened after maturity was
attained. For a man who usually had to be pried away from his beloved
studio and traveled only because  the war work had compelled him to do so,
he was frequently on the road after the war , as if to burn of f ener gy that he
could no longer burn of f on his films—heading to his retreat at Smoke T ree
in the desert or to the Sugar Bowl for skiing or to confer with the Dalis at
Del Monte. As Song of the South  was being completed, he even took a brief
trip to St. Louis, stopping in Kansas City along the way and driving
dreamily through his old neighborhood, lamenting how dilapidated it now
looked. And in November 1946, after the Atlanta premiere of Song of the
South,  he flew to New Y ork, then boarded the Queen Elizabeth  with Lillian,
Perce P earce, screenwriter Joh n T ucker Battle, and their wives for the
crossing to England and on to Ireland to gather material for a film on
leprechauns. It was his first European trip since the triumphant tour in 1935.
If he was restless, he was spinning in a dozen dif ferent directions, none
of which  seemed to excite him the way the old animations or e ven Song of
the South  had. He returned to Los Angeles on December 17, the day before