# Página 816  
a visit to the Xerox factory with  a means of copying the lines onto a light-
sensitive aluminum plate and from the plate to the cel.
The anim ators w ere generally ecstatic. For years they had had to see their
lines thi ckened and smoothed by the inkers, who traced them . Now the
drawings got onto the screen exactly as they had been on thei r animation
boards. “It was the first time we ever saw our drawings on the screen,
literally ,” Marc Davis said. “Be fore, they’d always been watered down.” A
film like 101 Dalmatians  cou ld not have been made any other way; the
inkers and painters would have had to draw each spot of each dog on each
cel in which it appeared. But in eliminating the middleman and gaining
speed an d immediacy , somethi ng was also lost. Eric Larson thought the
Xerography “spoils the beauty of the design of the character” because the
consistency and the sinuousnes s of the lines were gone. Instead one got
much sharper , rougher , more angular lines, like those drawn by a pencil
rather th an a paintbrush, and a more vivid sense of the anim ator ’ s hand,
which pointed the animation back toward the less realistic self-reflexiveness
from wh ich W a lt Disney had t urned it so many , many years before. The
ef fect w as to put the animators in char ge—and to put their visions, not
W alt’ s, on the screen.
T o the extent th at W alt cared, he was not impressed by the vis ual style,
but he didn’ t ca re very much. A fter Dalmatians,  as Marc  Davis told it, the
business side of the studio was so adamantly opposed to doing another
animated feature that W alt once again was ready to yield and drop
animation altogether . “Then he had second thoughts,” Davis said. “He felt
the guys knew how to make th ese films and that he owed it to them to
continue.” Still, after the Sleeping Beauty  debacle, the studio had slashed
the budgets, and after Dalmatians  i t slash ed them  yet again; The Swor d in
the Stone  was budgeted at 40 percent less than Dalmatians,  which, Ken
Peterson wrote W alt, would “require drastic steps in our production
procedure, in order to make it p ossible.” Meanwhile W alt furth er retreated,
leaving the animators to bicker  among themselves, their old e sprit almost
entirely gone, and he intervene d only when they begged him to do so to
resolve some thorny issue. As Milt Kahl put it, “He was interested in a
picture until he had all the problems solved and then he just lost interest.”