# Página 701  
The reason, W alt averred, was psychological—a lesson learned, no
doubt, from his miniatures at D isneylandia. For one thing, the altered size
“made t he stree t a toy ,” he felt, and provided the subliminal fun that toys
did. For another , it underscored the sense of nostalgia because it associated
the past and the fantastic with the small and quaint. “[P]eople l ike to think
their wo rld is somehow more grown up than Papa’ s was,” he said. And
finally , h e thoug ht, the scale ma de the park more inviting and accessible—a
human monume nt. Ken Anderson recalled W alt saying, “Y ou know , tyrants
in the past built these huge bui ldings—look how big and powerful I am.
And they towered over the people just to impress the p eople.” At
Disneyland the people would b e made to feel that they towered over the
buildings.
Even more sophisticated ef fects  re-created the sense of watchin g a film.
One analyst compared the park to a Disney animation, with each of the
main attractions playing the same role as the “key frames” in the films:
“conveying the extremes of the action.” This ef fect made the images and
experiences more indelible. John Hench, who helped desig n the park,
claimed that W alt had devised a “kind of live action cross dis solve when
passing from one area of Dis neyland to another ,” referring to a film
technique in which one scene gradually fades while the next gradually
appears. “He would insist on changing the texture of the pavement at the
threshold of each new land because he said, ‘Y ou can get inform ation about
a changing environment through the soles of your feet.’” But this also kept
the experience fluid and or ganic—not just a disjointed series of rides but a
complete sensory flow from one to the next.
The WED staf f, or “Imagineers,” as they would later be dubbed, to
acknowledge the combination of engineering and imagination that went into
the task of designing the park, had not only been inspired by  movies in
thinking of rides; W alt had coa ched them to think of the rides as movie
experiences. On e would pass through “scenes” physically just  as one did
while temporally  watching a film. Indeed, during the planning stages W alt,
while examining the storyboards for the attractions, would actually act out
guests’ reactions  as he had always acted out the scenes of the animations. In
ef fect, th en, the park was designed not only to provide archetypal tableaux