# Página 269  
recognize what would become a standard business practice in Hollywood
forty yea rs later— that one could harvest enormous profits from film-related
toys, games, clothing, and other products. Indeed, as Literary Digest
reported, “[I]t is no exaggeratio n to state that W alt Disney Enterprises has
become the tail that wags the mouse.”  
There w as ano ther reason, beyond Mickey’ s visual appea l, that the
merchandise was seemingly becoming more popular than the cartoons:
onscreen Mickey had faltered, if not in audience appeal, then with critics
and even  within the studio. He was scarcely five years old when, given his
split personality  between Chaplin and Fairbanks, he began to suf fer the
inevitable identity crisis. Recognizing the problem, Jack Hannah, an
animator at the time, recalled, “W e began to have an awful hard time
defining stories for Mickey….  [He] began as a mischief maker , but he
developed right of f the bat into  a little hero type, and you cou ldn’ t knock
him arou nd too much.” Animation historian Michael Barrier believed that
there ha d been dif ferent concep tions of Mickey in dif ferent media but that
the cartoon Mickey , who had arrived with a gleefully puckish, anarchic
streak, increasin gly came to resemble the comic strip Mickey , who was
thrust in to situations in which he  was required to act heroically—essentially
sacrificing his Chaplin half to h is Fairbanks half. Mickey now was always
rescuing Minnie from the clutches of the sadistic Peg Leg Pete.
While these halves of Mickey  were warring, he was plagued by yet
another , almost metaphysical question: what exactly was  Mickey Mouse?
W as he a mous e with mouselike attributes that led him to bedevil his
antagonists, or was he a human in the form of a mouse? More to the point,
was he a little boy in the form of a mouse? This question had tr oubled W alt
and the animators too and had even prompted some critics to speculate
whether , as Theatr e Arts Monthly  put  it, Mickey  would be “ab andoned
gradually in favor of the sym phonies” or whether his creators would
“divorce him from the animal world and marry him into the hu man.” Back
in 1928 he seemed to have bee n conceptualized as a mouse with human