# Página 603  
president of the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry , Lenox Lohr ,
who hos ted the  fair , let W alt and Kimball backstage at a pageant called
Wheels a Rolling,  presented on a 450-foot platform of f Lake Michigan
embedded with tracks for histo ric locomotives. W alt was even allowed to
run several of th e old engines a nd appeared briefly in the show . “W e were
like little kids, running famous  locomotives like the Lafayette, the John
Bull, and the T om Thumb,” Kim ball remembered. In addition to the show ,
the fair featured  exhibits—“lan ds,” one observer called them: a replica of
the New  Orlean s French quarter erected by the Illinois Central Railroad; a
dude ran ch; a generic national park with a geyser that erupted e very fifteen
minutes, sponso red by several of the western railroads; and an Indian
village set up by the Santa Fe.
But for all the fun and diversion W alt enjoyed at the fair , it was, like the
trip to Goderich the previous summer , a journey into the past as well—a
journey to rediscover himself a nd to rekindle his passions. During the trip
out W al t, obviously lonely , would rap on the door to Kimball’ s quarters,
invite hi m into his sleeper , pour two whiskeys from a glass d ecanter , and
talk. “He was very preoccupied with his own history ,” Kimball said, “and
he spent  two nights telling me h is entire history from the time he was a boy ,
sold pap ers and the whole thing.” As always W alt especially savored telling
about Mintz’ s treachery and th e creation of Mickey Mouse—savored it
even mo re now that he was fou ndering. “Y ou see, I was right,” he would
tell Kimball. “Y ou see, I got b ack at them and they lost their ass.” Once
they wer e in Chicago, Kimball, a musician, wanted to visit some of the jazz
clubs. W alt refused. Instead, one night W alt coaxed Kimball into riding the
elevated train with him as W a lt, looking out the window , described the
scenes of his yo uth in the city . At one isolated, dirty station, K imball said,
W alt an d he got of f, and W alt  explained that this was where he would
transfer trains to get to his post of fice job in 1918. “W alt was reliving his
youth,” Kimball assessed.
But the fascinati on with trains was more than a way to relive his youth in
Marceline, when  his uncle Mik e, the engineer , would come up  the lane to
the Disney farm with his bags of sweets, or the summer in Kansas City ,
when W alt rode as train butcher selling candy and soda, or the elevated train