# Página 567  
stereotyping, from a blackbird in the short Who Kil led Coc k Robin?  who
speaks i n a thick drawl and bla nches white when frightened, to the hipster
crows in Dumbo,  though the case has been made that the crows were
sympathetic to Dumbo precisely  because they understood what it was like
to be ostracized themselves. W orse, in the “Pastorale” s equence of
Fantasia,  W alt enthused over the idea o f a little black centaurette with  a
watermelon who  is terrified wh en Pegasus gallops after her . “S he sees him
and Jesus! She g oes like hell,” W alt said at a story meeting. “There would
be a lot of laughs and it would give a definite lift to the whole thing.”
But if W alt had been racially insensitive, he now appreciated the
minefield through which he was tiptoeing with the Uncle Remu s film. “The
negro si tuation is a dangerous o ne,” Disney publicist V ern Caldwell wrote
producer Perce Pearce as the sc ript was getting under way . “B etween the
negro haters and the negro lovers there are many chances to run afoul of
situations that could run the gamut all the way from the n asty to the
controversial.” Roy apparently had asked RKO, the Disneys’ distributor , to
investigate “negro picture experiences” and said he foresaw interference
from at least one or ganization, the League for the Advancem ent of the
Negro; and W alt had instructe d one of his publicists to meet with Bill
Kupper , the sales manager o f T wentieth Century–Fox, to  hear their
experiences in distributing Stormy W eather ,  which featured a black cast.
Kupper said that in the South th e film had to be booked into tw o theaters,
one for whites and one for black s; that the studio got grief from both whites
and blac ks; and  that the film had to be made in such a way that scenes
featuring blacks could be cut or southern exhibitors wouldn’ t show them.
One of the reas ons W alt had hired Rapf to work with Reymond was to
temper what he feared would be  Reymond’ s white southern slant. Rapf was
a mi nority , a Jew , and an outspo ken left-winger , and he himself feared that
the f ilm would i nevitably be Uncle T omish. “That’ s exactly why  I want you
to work on it,” W alt told him, “b ecause I know that you don’ t think I should
make the movie. Y ou’re against Uncle T omism, and you’re a radical.” Rapf
made small changes in Reymo nd’ s script, omitting references to “negro
boy” and  “negro  girl” as if the children were generic and cuttin g a line that
a bo y ran “like a black streak,” and he claimed to have made lar ger ones too