# Página 281  
Johnston remem bered. “One eyebrow would be raised, and he’d have that
intent expression. Sometimes hi s gaze would settle on you, and you’d think
he was preparing to pounce on you for something you’d said. Actually it
was his tremend ous powers of concentration at work, and I doubt that he
knew who he was looking at most of the time.” Eric Larson c laimed that
W alt wasn’ t really even listen ing—that as the storyman began running
through the boards, he was already looking at the final sketches, which
Larson i nterpreted to mean that W alt had visited the studio the night before
and gone over the boards himsel f so that he would be fully prepared. (Some
storymen swore they found W alt’ s Chesterfield cigarette butts in their
ashtrays.) Then would come his  analysis, which wasn’ t a suggestion but a
directive. “He could be brutal,”  animator and later director J ack Hannah
said. “[H]e’d start the idea for a sequence of gags and we’d say , ‘That’ s
great, W alt!’ and suddenly his whole mood would change and  he’d reply ,
‘Nah, we aren’ t going to do that.’” On one occasion a de monstrative
storyman named Homer Brightm an presented the boards for a Donald Duck
cartoon and got the entire roo m laughing with his performance. When
Brightman finished, W alt turned curtly to his stenographer and asked her if
she had been lau ghing at Brightman or at the story . “At Home r ,” she said,
after which W alt launched into his critique.
But it wasn’ t W alt’ s analysis that imprinted itself on the cartoons as much
as his uncanny ability to inhabit the character and enter the situation. W alt
thought  like Mickey or Donald or Pluto. “If W alt said to me, ‘Mickey
wouldn’ t think this way ,’” said storyman Leo Salkin, “who knows how
Mickey would think? But in W alt’ s mind, this is what Mickey would think
or fe el, a nd it was valid.” Layout artist John Hench said that W a lt would go
into a “kind of trance” when he listened to a presentation. “In his mind he
could se e the whole story so well and bend forward unconsciously and
become like an old owl—hunch ed up, and his bill would clack a little bit.
When he ’d come out of it, he’d say , ‘Y ou know what we ought  to do is…’
and then he’d leap up and begin acting out the scene with all new dialogue
and business.”
Everyone at the studio marveled at his acting—how W alt, who was
usually fairly reserved now , wo uld get up at the story meetings, enter his