# Página 535  
government business, still trying to keep the studio solvent, th ough at one
point so much work was already pouring in that Roy and W alt had to issue
an e dict forbidding any contract  that was not personally approve d by one of
them. In  a way , the studio had become addicted to the government work,
gor ging itself on it both because  it needed it and because it could  do nothing
else. Indeed, the studio had strayed so far from its original mission that W alt
now began to en tertain another idea he had long been ur ged to c onsider , and
had cons idered, but had always finally rebuf fed: commercials and industrial
films for public relations rathe r than training purposes. The studio had
produced a Mickey Mouse shor t for the Nabisco pavilion at the 1939 New
Y ork W orld’ s Fair , but W alt had gently rejected other suitors. Now he hired
a liaison  named  John Sheehan, whose job was to field of fers. Among the
companies wanting the Disney touch were W estinghouse, Firestone T ire,
General Motors and the Ford Motor Company , Owens Glass, Standard Oil
of Indiana, and National Dairy Products, most of whom wanted to deal with
W alt per sonally . W alt even closed a deal to make a film for Coca-Cola, then
solicited a series for its rival, Pepsi-Cola.
Roy , loo king for a way to streamline the process and to protect the studio
“against making bad boners in p resenting ourselves and our propositions to
big acco unts,” eventually suggested that the studio tie in with its advertising
firm, Foote, Cone & Belding. But W alt—seeing no residual value in
commercials and  feeling vaguely humiliated about making them after years
of bold pronouncements about greatness—vacillated, even as he instructed
his staf f to keep pursuing them. He told clients that they could find someone
else to do the films more cheapl y , or he told them that he could see himself
making commercials for televi sion someday , just not now; on the other
hand, he  also mused that commercials might help absorb manpower at the
studio. I n any case, making com mercials was not what he wanted to do, and
for a ll th e work  the studio discu ssed, little was actually contracted for and
even less was delivered.
But, then, in 1943 the studio had only slipped further into the war
morass, had only become more of a defense factory and less of a movie
studio. Ninety-fo ur percent of the output now went to the government, and
in Ju ne 1943 alone the studio produced just 2,300 feet less film than it had