# Página 132  
Though Mintz agreed in principle, he continued to haggle, even  coming out
to L os A ngeles t o discuss the co ntract. When it was finally conc luded, W alt
realized the diminished advanc e would likely compromise the films. “I
want yo u to understand that it is almost a physical impossibility to make
each picture a k nockout,” W alt wrote Mintz during the final neg otiations in
what mu st have been a dif ficu lt concession for someone who wanted so
badly to excel, “and I only hope that you will be fair enough to let me know
when I have a good picture, as well as to tell me about the poor ones.” As
for the rights, Mintz retained them.
Thus W alt resolved the crisis with Mintz, but he had not resolved the
deeper f inancial crisis or the cri sis of status. Even with the new contract he
was still  scrambling for money and looking for ways to supplement what
little he was making on the Ali ce films. Throughout his time i n California
he had been soliciting work from  Dr . McCrum, the dentist for whom he had
made T ommy T ucker ’ s T ooth  in Kansas City , though he knew any profits
would b e neglig ible. He had al so of fered to produce song fil ms for Carl
Stalling, for whom he had made Martha.  In the  meant ime he had
subcontracted w ith another company to draw the titles for a serial. By
summer 1926 he had finally got ten Dr . McCrum to commit to a new dental
hygiene film, Clara C leans He r T eeth,  i n whic h W alt starred Lillian’ s niece,
Marjorie Sewel l, as a ragamuf fin who is ostracized by oth er children
because her teeth have gone rotten.
After his  showd own with Mintz, it was clearly humbling to have to make
a fil m on denta l hygiene, especially as W alt was trying so manfully to
maintain the fiction of his success, even to his own staf f. “W alt’ s of fice
looks like a bank president’ s loafing room,” one of his employees wrote his
family o f Hyper ion. But throughout 1926 the man with the lar ge of fice was
making no more than $300 prof it per picture on the Alices, sliding to $100
as he neared the  end of the year and of the contract, and plumme ting further
to a loss of $61.25 on the last  of the series. When Mintz asked him to
contribute to a fund to fight John Randolph Bray , who was accusing
animators of copyright infringem ent, W alt begged of f, saying h e could not
af ford it : “I have borrowed to m y capacity and have to squeeze very hard to
make things come out right.”