# Página 397  
working almost entirely from the aural to the visual, and he was trying to do
it quickly .
And the  staf f did work fast. W ithin two weeks of the story conference
Perce Pearce, who was actin g as the producer , constructed a rough
continuity for the first section of the film, from Bambi’ s birth to his first
walk in the woo ds; scenes had been parceled out to various mem bers of the
story departmen t; and voices had been recorded. A month after that the
story cre w was meeting with Franklin and picking his brain. Franklin had
latched onto the idea of a comic al hare who throughout the film tries to tell
Bambi a story but keeps getting harassed by a fox before he  can finish.
Finally , he is shot by a hunter , and as he attempts one last time to finish his
story be fore exp iring, he gasps, “It wasn’ t a very funny story any way . There
was no point to it.” The scene never made it into the final script, but it did
have an ef fect. According to Johnston and Thomas, “[I]t show ed us a new
dimension that  was possible for animation: real drama with the
communication of an idea that would move the audience.” Fro m his live-
action experienc e Franklin was showing them how to move be yond Snow
White  into even more poignant and dramatic realms.
Franklin seemed to spark W alt too. When they met for an extended story
session on December 15, a week before the Snow White  prem iere, W alt was
suddenly engaged with the material again, describing an opening montage
of winter turning to spring virtually shot by shot just as he had done on
Snow White  and doing the s ame on a scene  after a devastating forest fire.
Franklin was impressed by W alt ’ s sensitivity to the treatment. “Y ou have hit
the story  with this,” he told W alt. “This is Bambi.  The re is no gag that
stands o ut abov e Bambi himself. He is part of everything.” But in some
ways F ranklin’ s enthusiasm simply underscored W alt’ s problems with
Bambi.  I t requir ed too  muc h se nsitivity , too  deli cate a hand.  It wasn’ t ready ,
and the studio wasn’ t ready for it. The very day of his meeting with
Franklin, W alt announced to the  press that he would be postponing the film
and slotting Pinocchio  in its place.