# Página 203  
agreement, they  were incensed. Columbia vice-president Abe  Schneider
said he had been a “sucker” in n egotiating with Roy , and the president, Jack
Cohn, w arned Roy ominously , “Y ou are going to lose plenty as a result of
this deal,” meaning presumably that Columbia would not p romote the
Disney cartoons that remained on its schedule as aggressively as it had, or
account for them as accuratel y . Still, the Disneys seemed u nrepentant,
unbowed, and thrilled with their new association—payback for what they
felt they  had suf fered. “W e have been approached frequently on the matter
of d istributing short subjects,” Joe Schenck declared after the of ficial
announcement of the Disney contract on April 13, “but we have heretofore
held to the theory that United Artists is an or ganization only for  the biggest
stars. Mickey Mouse, however , is dif ferent. Disney has created a character
whose type has never been equaled in motion picture history .”
It should have b een a moment o f triumph, and in many ways it was, but
even wi th the success of the cartoons and even with the prospect of more
revenue under the new contract, the joy was tempered by the Disneys’
endemic problem : they were still having trouble making ends meet while
they continued to deliver what they owed to Columbia and while they
waited the year for the new c ontract to take ef fect. “V ery frankly , our
business has been growing so fast and expanding in two or three directions,
that we are stil l about as clos e run for money as ever ,” Roy wrote his
parents shortly after the UA ann ouncement, citing the skyrocketing cost of
the cartoons—W alt put the budget per cartoon now at $13,50 0—and the
expenditures on the studio expansion. Already in May , Roy was seeking—
and received—a $25,000 loan from the Bank of America to be paid of f by
the Columbia overages, hoping  both to infuse new money into the cash-
strapped studio and to force Columbia, which was also financed by the
Bank of  Americ a, to be “very careful on their trickery” since “[Joe] Brandt
will hesitate before trying to ge t funny if the Bank of America is there to
call Col umbia to time.” Roy ag reed not to tell W alt “too much” about the
loan for fear of his brother ’ s burning through the new funds.
The sense of relief did not last long. By the end of June the C olumbia
remittances had declined, as Cohn predicted they would, leaving the studio
in jeopardy of failing to meet its payroll, even though Schenck himself was