# Página 309  
And they studied not only people and movement but the behavior of
inanimate objects. “It came to a [point] where bricks would  be thrown
through a plate g lass window ,” recalled Eric Larson, “to see what the action
looks like. And we would shoot it in slow motion.” T o understand ripples,
the animators would drop rocks into water , but Josh Meador in the ef fects
department wasn’ t satisfied, so he experimented with dif ferent-sized rocks
and dif f erent liquids to appreciate better the ef fect of density .  They even
slammed doors to observe the reaction when the wood hit the jambs. Ham
Luske w ould take of f his tie while sailing to Catalina Island and dangle it
just to see how t he wind took it,  or he would imitate a golfing p artner ’ s putt
to d emonstrate “anticipation.” “ Ham was studying animation all the time,”
said Eric Larson, “it was his whole life.” But it was everyone’ s  life at
Disney t o absor b for the greater  good of animation. “W e saw every ballet,
we saw every f ilm,” remembe red Marc Davis. “If a film was good we
would g o and see it five times… . Anything that might produce growth, that
might b e stimulating—the cutting of scenes, the staging, how a group of
scenes was put together . Everyb ody was studying constantly .” And calling
it a “perfect time of many things coming together in one orbit, ” he added,
“W alt was that lodestone.”  
Now the y seeme d to be ready . By late November 1935, two and  a half years
after W alt had first performed Snow White,  he had set a schedule, basically
starting with the comic scenes, moving to the frightening scenes, and
ending w ith the sad scenes, app arently hoping that his staf f ’ s sophistication
would g row as the project proceeded, and he began to assign the  animation.
Ham Luske would be the “first to start” and was clearly singled out as the
primary animator . In mid-December , W alt instructed Luske to  begin with
Snow W hite’ s discovery of the d warfs’ cottage, then move progressively on
to the dwarfs’ discovery of Snow White asleep in their be droom, the
washing and soup-eating sequen ces, Snow White sending the d warfs of f to
the mine, Snow White encoun tering the peddler woman and eating the
apple, and finally Snow White in the woods meeting the birds. “It is
possible that with the experien ce Ham will gain by the work he is now