# Página 351  
economic stringencies, both to get better work from them during  the stretch
run on Snow White  and  to fulfill hi s fantasy of a guild of happy artists. In
February he tore up Sharpsteen ’ s contract and awarded him a new one at
$200 a week fo r three years. B y April he was already handing out salary
adjustments on Snow White:  $2,500 to Fred Moore, $3,900 to Dave Hand
and Sharpsteen, and $5,200 to H am Luske. Most of these were paid out as
additional increments in salary , though W alt would also give an  animator a
cash sum , as he did for Bill T ytl a that April, if he thought the employee was
being underpaid, or an advance if a man needed it.
Y et his generosity seemed to do little to ener gize the process, and the
animators still seemed to be limping to the finish line. Though the average
footage approved for cleanup should have been fifty feet a week if they
were to make their Christmas deadline, the animators were averaging only
half that  as late as August. In a studio breakdown of how m uch footage
each animator was producing e ach day , the results were startli ngly low—
among t hem, T ytla 1'10", Babbitt 2'2", Fer guson 4'7", Moore 2'1", Thomas
3'1". (Having worked on the picture the longest, T ytla and Moore would
have the most final footage in the film—944 feet and 974 feet respectively .)
Moreover , the cumbersome multiplane slowed progress even further . As
late as Septembe r , many of the staf f were conceding that the film probably
wouldn’ t be ready by Christmas, and the animators were drawing right
through October  and into early November trying to make the schedule. The
final ani mation wasn’ t complete d until November 1 1, the last cels weren’ t
painted until November 27, an d the final photography wasn’ t done until
December 1, just six days before the first scheduled sneak preview and just
barely in time t o make the gen eral release. “It had gotten around to the
theaters that there were no pri nts,” animator Bill Peet recalled, “and we
were all scared to death.”
The final scenes—Snow White on her bier after taking a bite from the
poison apple, the dwarfs placin g flowers around her , her bein g awakened
and ridin g of f with the Prince—had been saved for last lar gely b ecause W alt
understood that they were the most dif ficult in the film. They were the
scenes in which the audience wo uld be invited to cry along with the dwarfs,
an emot ional province that animations had not previously entered, and they