# Página 1179  
exist, an d they are extensively referenced in the endnotes, thoug h not in the
Bibliography .
Of spec ial note is one particular set of interviews. Shortly after W alt’ s
death R oy O. Disney commissioned a biography of his brother and hired
Richard G. Hubler , a veteran journalist who had written a recent biography
of Cole Porter and had ghostwritten Ronald Reagan’ s autobiography ,
Wher e’ s the Rest of Me?  Under studio auspices, Hubler interviewed dozens
of employees as well as Roy O., Sharon, Diane, and the reticent Lillian.
Though Roy was deeply disapp ointed with the manuscript and ultimately
deemed it unpublishable, the interviews are a precious trove for  any Disney
biographer . I have generally cit ed the source for these interviews as RHC,
for the Richard  Hubler Collection at Boston University , though they are
also available at the Disney Arch ives and I have used that citation when full
transcripts were available at RHC.
When W alt coaxed Diane to “ write” his biography , he recruited Pete
Martin, another veteran journalist, to assist her . Martin conducted long
interviews with W alt and his family that serve as the basis for The Story of
W alt Disney . T hese interviews have been tra nscribed and the transcripts are
available at the archive, but I listened to the audio as well and found
discrepancies and omissions between the original tapes and the
transcriptions. I have reference d the book itself in my notes whenever
possible because it is easily accessible to readers. I have referenced the
transcriptions in  the notes where they elaborate upon something in Diane
Disney M iller ’ s text because they are, theoretically at least, also available to
scholars. Finally , I have referenced the audio disks themselves, which are
not readily available, only when  they bear information not included in the
book or the transcript. In any ca se, these interviews may be the single most
valuable source in gaining a s ense of what W alt was actually thinking:
W alt’ s version of events in his own voice.
In addition to these materials, there are accounts of W alt and the studio,
published and unpublished, by Disney employees including Dave Hand,
Jack Kin ney , Bi ll Justice, Harry T ytle, and Robert Price Foster , who was
responsible for heading the operation to buy the land for Disney W orld.