# Página 808  
and of simulatio n.” Disneyland  had become a metaphor for America—an
America that had increasingly opted for fantasy and, its critics believed,
was paying a price for doing so. More than even the archetypal nation of the
imagination tha t he had created in the 1950s, this was W alt Disney’ s
America.
If D isneyland was a metaphor , so too was W alt Disney himself, his image
no less synthetic than his theme  park. Just as the postwar W alt Disney had
become the personification of American corporate power , all the bonhomie,
all t he bromides, all the profess ions of anti-intellectualism and the hints of
moralism, all the dramatic accounts of personal struggle, perseverance, and
triumph, had converted W alt Dis ney into the very personification not just of
sturdy A merican values but of something else: of a cultural and political
conservatism tha t could countenance neither criticism nor change. Since the
1950s, America  had seen wh at journalist Godfrey Hodgso n called a
“disappointment in expectations.” Americans had enjoyed a postwar
economic boom that raised wages and the standard of living, but these
gains, H odgson wrote, “seemed negated emotionally by a sense of loss and
sense of  threat,”  especially among the white middle class—W alt Disney’ s
stock—“which had seen its relatively privileged status successively eroded
by almost every social deve lopment of the past hundred years: by
immigration, urbanization, the eclipse of Protestantism, inflation,
depression and now by wartim e boom and the high wages it brought to
every other group.” Put another way , the old nineteenth-century ideal of
America was rapidly fading.
W alt Dis ney , as the representati ve of all that was good and dec ent about
that old, endangered America, had long been a bulwark against the sense of
loss and threat. But in the r oiling America of the 1960s—politically
unsettled by assassinations and urban riots, protest marches, and war , and
aesthetically unsettled by the Beatles, graphic violence, and increasingly
frank se xuality—the nation’ s favorite uncle turned into an anachronism: an
emblem of conformity in a time of dissent. He knew it. Occa sionally he
even flashed resentment at it. During a photo shoot at his Disneyland
apartment, W alt, according to the photographer , suddenly slou ched in his
chair , lifted a gi n bottle, unzipped his pants fly , pulled out his s hirttail, and