# Página 696  
Saturday noon to Sunday evening, even though there was no sign
identifying the property as Disneyland.
If the country was waiting expectantly , so was W alt Disney . In spite of
the p ark’ s shortcomings, he see med rejuvenated, almost giddy .  He was the
first one to ride the attraction s—“just like a little kid,” Ma rvin Davis
recalled. “He’d get of f and giggle or if he didn’ t like it too well, his
eyebrow would go up and he’d say , ‘Fix this thing and let’ s get this show on
the road .’” T en-year -old Harrison Ellenshaw , whose father , Pe ter , was an
artist at the stu dio, remembered visiting the site one Saturda y while his
father p ainted a  map of the park. The boy was watching the workers lay
track for the railroad when W alt  approached him, spotted a board on a train
carriage near the track, and of fe red to give him a ride. Harrison jumped on
the b oard, and W alt pushed. Then, when it had reached speed, W alt jumped
on h imself. “He was acting just like a kid,” Harrison Ellenshaw would say
years later , echoing Davis, “on the same level as a ten-year -old kid!” In
fact, W alt’ s own capacity to experience the park the way guests would, with
the same  childlike abandon, contributed to the appeal of the attractions. One
acquaintance called the park the “world’ s biggest toy for the world’ s biggest
boy .”
Even w ith the opening hard upon him and even with the clear
exhilaration he was feeling, W alt was still examining, still tinkering and
plotting. An assistant landscaper remembered watching him five days
before the dedication walking up  and down Main Street and scrutinizing the
facades. “[H]e would stop and f ace a building and look at it, st ep back, his
head wo uld kin d of turn,” the man said, “and then he would make some
notes in his little flip notepad. H e then would look up at something else and
make an other n ote, look down at the bottom of the sidewalk, check out
everything, and  a last-minute glance and he would go on to the next
building.” As a final test, W alt invited families of the members of the
studio’ s Penthou se Club to a kind of sneak preview . “W e had a tent set up,
we had a barbec ue and three bar rels of beer and W alt would be running the
train around,” W alt Pfeif fer rec ollected. “Everybody was waving and the
Mark T wain would go by with  everybody singing—it was just a glorious
day .”