# Página 614  
and downs” but that “we are n ow finally beginning to get hold of it and
make pr ogress.” Still, though it was one of the most profitable divisions of
the c ompany , it only added to t he growing if mistaken impression of W alt
Disney as a corporate magnate rather than an artist—someone who was
now out to exploit rather than to create.
VII
Since the very beginning of Disney Bros., the studio had been W alt
Disney’ s refuge  and his real home. “[N]o matter what you were talking
about, he’d get b ack to this godd amn Studio,” W ard Kimball said, referring
to the train ride  to the Chicago Railroad Fair . “He wanted to ta lk about it.
This was HIM. This was his SEX! This was EVER YTHING…. The
or gasms were all here.” Milt Kahl told one interviewer that “he lived here,
really . G od, his home life was n othing compared to his studio l ife.” (There
was, in fact, the room of f his of fice with a bed and shower whe re the naval
of ficer had stayed for a time during the war and where W alt would
occasionally spe nd the night.) His secretary recalled how he frequently
ignored the clock and at seven o r eight in the evening would still be in his
of fice, and she would phone Lil lian to tell her that W alt wouldn’ t be home
for dinner .
So it was yet an other sign of W alt’ s discontent that as he was embarking
on h is tr ain-building, he was also investigating building a new house for his
family as what he called “sort of a wedding anniversary present—our
twenty-fifth.” The Disneys had lived in the home on the hill at 4053
W oking W ay , from which they could see the Pacific Ocean and Los Angeles
below , s ince bef ore Diane’ s birth, and even then, despite its five bedrooms
and five  baths, its pool and playhouse and badminton court and screening
room in the library where wood  panels slid back to reveal the projector , it
had been  a modest structure for a film executive of W alt Disn ey’ s stature.
The new  house was partly a project, something to hold W alt ’ s attention,
partly a haven to replace the studio as the trains had replaced the  animation,
and partly a wa y to secure himself against the assaults of the world by
retreating to his family . “All in all, I think it is going to be a very happy set-