# Página 291  
wants to kill Snow White to certify her own place as the kingdom’ s reigning
beauty , disguising herself as a peddler to gain access to the innocent girl.
But wha tever so urces W alt Disney drew upon, by the spring of 1933 he
was alre ady synthesizing them in his mind and for ging something entirely
new—something he was beginning to internalize by reciting the story at
every op portunity . “W e had a b usiness meeting today for no good reason,”
one coll eague that May wrote Roy , who was in New Y ork at the time.
“However , it was very interestin g because among other things W alt told us
his i dea of deve loping the story , ‘Snow White,’ and honestly , the way that
boy can tell a story is nobody’ s business. I was practically in tears during
some of it, and I’ve read the st ory many times, as a child, without being
particularly moved. If it should turn out one tenth as good as the way he
tells it, it should be a wow .” An imator Dick Huemer claimed that when he
first went to work for Disney that same year , the two of them we re sitting in
W alt’ s of fice and W alt began to expatiate upon Snow White.  “W a lt w as such
a wonde rful acto r that my throat started to get tight, and my eyes began to
moisten,” Huemer recalled, “it was wonderful, the way he was  telling it.”
During a visit to  his old friend W alt Pfeif fer , who was living in  Chicago at
the time  and working at an advertising agency , W alt began performing
Snow White  as they toured t he Field Museum of Natural History . When he
reached the point where the vultures swoop down on the peddler woman as
she escapes, W alt was so dem onstrative that a security guard thought
Pfeif fer was being attacked, and the two W alts had to slink away .
It m ay have bee n as early as the winter of 1934* t hat  W alt felt ready to
make hi s first public presentation. As Ken Anderson remembered it, W alt
approached a group of employ ees late one afternoon, gave each of them
fifty cents, told them to grab din ner across the street and then return to the
soundstage that evening. None had any idea of what W alt had in mind.
When they arrived, about fifty of them, at roughly seven-thirt y , and took
their seats on wooden tiers at the back of the room, W alt was sta nding at the
front lit by a sin gle spotlight in the otherwise dark space. Anno uncing that
he was going to launch an ani mated feature, he told the sto ry of Snow
White, not just telling it but  acting it out, assuming the characters’
mannerisms, pu tting on their voices, letting his audience visualize exactly