# Página 422  
When sh e whirls  up, you see the panties and her little butt—it will be swell!
The aud ience w ill rave if you can make them feel Sex in a flower .” At the
end leav es would fall over the dancers as the flowers exhaust themselves.
As the leaves continued to fall, the film would return to the orchestra, now
in shadow .
But on The Concert Featur e  n othing was se t in stone. By November ,
W alt had reconsidered, then reincorporated, and finally dropped the
overture entirely (“Y ou mean it’ s okay?” W alt asked his staf f incredulously
as he would never have asked  on Snow White.  “I expected a battle”),
replaced the turtles of the Russian Dance with thistles, and eliminated the
little an imals of the Arab Dance for what he called “an underwater
extravaganza embodying all types of marine plant life and beautiful fish.”
The one section that still trouble d him was the Chinese Dance. He felt that
they had n’ t quit e found the exa ct visual correlative. But he di d fasten on
one elem ent he liked. “[T]here’ s something very valuable in these little
mushrooms tha t look like Chinese characters,” W alt said at the story
meeting. “T ake the little mushrooms—there’ s something there that will be
very cute, and people will r emember it—every time they  look at a
mushroom after that they’ll try to see those Chinese.” By January 1939, the
March P rocessional had gone the way of the overture, the lizards and the
frog ma ndarin w ere gone, and t he mushrooms had become the stars of the
segment.
The sequence that really fired W alt’ s imagination, however , was
Stravinsky’ s The Rite of Spring.  W alt had already contacted Stravinsky in
April 1938 about the possibility of using The Fir ebir d  in The Concert
Featur e,  though that plan was ultimately scrapped. But Stravinsky’ s name
arose ag ain in September , when W alt, T aylor , and Stokowski were poring
over sco res and W alt suddenly a sked if there was a piece of mu sic to which
they could stage “something of a prehistoric theme—with prehistoric
animals.” T aylor immediately answered, Le S acr e du Prin temps,* and W alt,
without pausing , began to visualize: “There would be something terrific in
dinosaurs, flying lizards and prehistoric monsters.” When Stokowski had
the p iece played, W alt was ecstatic. “This is marvelous!” he said, and once
again described prehistoric animals and cavemen. “This prehistoric thing