# Página 594  
bitterness shortly after the strike, though it would have been
uncharacteristic of him even under those circumstances. No one else, not
even Ar t Babbitt, had ever accused W alt of making anti-Sem itic slurs or
taunts, a nd Babbitt hated W alt. In any case, for a man wh o had been
insulted, Swift always treated W alt cordially , often ef fusively , and said he
owed ev erything to him. W alt, in return, told Swift when Swift left the
studio a second time that “there  is still a candle burning in the  window if
you ever want to come back.”
Another factor that may have contributed to the idea that W alt Disney
was anti-Semitic was that he lived in a nimbus of rich, white, conservative
Protestantism that had tinges of anti-Semitism. W alt intimated to Harry
T ytle that W alt’ s own beloved S moke T ree was a restricted com munity , and
though h e occas ionally invited executives there for the weekend—he had
had a guest hou se built outside the ranch grounds—he gently warned T ytle
from acc epting for fear of T ytle ’ s being embarrassed. Josie Mankiewicz, a
school friend of Sharon’ s an d the daughter of screenwriter Herman
Mankiewicz, did  accept and wo uld tell of how she was having lunch with
the Disn eys at Smoke T ree when  a man came to the table and asked them to
leave. She did not report W alt’ s reaction.
Y et another theory traces the perception of anti-Semitism not to W alt
himself but to one of his most trusted employees, Ben Sharpsteen. The man
who had  suf fere d so much of W alt’ s abuse had heaped abuse of his own. An
animator named  Art Davis, who  had interviewed at the studio but was not
hired, sa id that Sharpsteen, despite having a name that might be mistaken
for J ewish, was actually a vicio us anti-Semite who did not kno wingly hire
Jews an d who reviled the ones  who had been hired, which was how the
studio g ot its reputation for host ility to Jews. In this version W alt was guilty
of anti-Semitism by association.
The most plausible explanation , however , is another case of  guilt by
association, only a much more serious one: W alt, in joining forces with the
MP A an d its band of professio nal reactionaries and red-baiters, also got
tarred w ith their anti-Semitism. Though Morrie R yskind, a Jew , was one of
the MP A ’ s most conservative and voluble members, it was widely thought