# Página 396  
department, submitted a synopsi s, which she continued to refine throughout
the s ummer . In August, with Snow White  sprinting to its finish, W alt met
with Larry Morey and Dorothy Ann Blank, who were attempti ng to shape
Majolie’ s synop sis into a scrip t, and by month’ s end he had begun to
or ganize the staf f, though he was still loath to pull anyone of f Snow White
until it was completed.
When W alt convened the first formal story conference for Bambi  on
September 4, and Dave Hand announced the schedule—animation to begin
on Dece mber 1,  with the releas e set for a year later—it was i mmediately
clear tha t things  were going to be very dif ferent from how they had been on
Snow White,  where the story  had under gone not months but years of intense
scrutiny . W alt was dif ferent too. “The staf f looked hopefully to W alt,” Frank
Thomas and Ollie Johnston would later write, “but he was not giving his
usual strong leadership this time. The storymen reported that he seemed
troubled by the whole idea of the picture and was not sure w hich way to
go.” Part of the  problem was th at W alt knew Franklin had been trying to
lick the script for years without success; what W alt admitted tha t he liked in
Felix Salten’ s novel, a series of incidents rather than a narrative, were the
“possibilities wi th animals” and “not with doing the book the w ay it was.”
And par t of the problem was that W alt was in a hurry to take a dvantage of
the momentum created by Snow White.  When Larry Morey suggested that
they first work out the scene of Bambi and his mother walking through the
woods, the sort of thing they did with the scene in which the dwarfs
discover Snow White when they started Snow White,  W alt countered that
they sho uld beg in casting voices at the same time. “Let us start moving on
this thing and no t drag it out too long,” he advised. He didn’ t w ant to waste
time by  designi ng the characters now . He said they should settle on the
characters, write “business” for them, and construct the first half of the
movie, t hen record the dialogue and music and make sketches afterward. “If
we had on a track the music, the  action, the dialogue, and the songs for your
first 400 0 feet,” he told the staf f, “you should be able to visualiz e it without
the sketches.” He even recom mended that Luske use the voices they
recorded for inspiration to draw model sheets of the charac ters, but he
warned, “It is w isest to build th rough a few characters.” In short, he was