# Página 40  
one dollars a week. Roy received three dollars of this; W alt, in Roy’ s
recollection, got “some little amount,” but in W alt’ s recollection nothing.
The rou te was not just a means of earning a living—it became a way of
life for the Di sneys. Everything was subordinated to the delivery of
newspapers. Even when the family moved, sometime in the summer or fall
of 1914, to a modest two-story bungalow at 3028 Bellefontaine on a quiet,
tree-lined street of similarly modest bungalows, they had only crossed
Thirty-first Stree t, compelled, as they were, to stay close to the  route. And
as their location was defined by  the route, so was their time. U nlike other
dealers, Elias would not buy a horse and wagon. Instead he had pushcarts,
shaped l ike Rom an chariots, one customer said, with down-sloping sides,
and each  mornin g, sometimes as early as three-thirty , Elias, W alt, and Roy
would take the carts to the distribution point, load them with papers, and
head back to Santa Fe to deliver . On Sundays, because the papers were too
thick fo r the carts to accommodate them all, the Disneys would have to
deliver o ne load and then return for another . This ef fectively prevented any
churchgoing in Kansas City for W alt and Roy , though Ruth insisted that she
was marched of f to Sunday school each week.
Only nine years old, W alt was  nevertheless tethered to the route. On
weekdays he would rise early , in the darkness, to get his allotment of fifty
papers a nd deliv er them—the first year by foot, the second by bicycle. He
returned home at five-thirty or six, took a short nap, and then woke and ate
his breakfast. Since he receiv ed virtually no compensation, for pocket
money he delivered medicine fo r a pharmacy along his route and eventually
talked his father into letting him take fifty additional papers to sell for
himself at a trolley stop and, when other newsboys evicted him from his
curb, on  the trolley itself. Afte r he finished on the trolley , he headed for
school, though he never comple ted the school day . He had to leave a half-
hour early to pi ck up the paper s for the afternoon run. At three-thirty the
next morning the routine would  begin again. On Saturdays, in addition to
delivering the papers, he collec ted the fees. And on Sundays  he had the
double load.