# Página 321  
the main director of the shorts and ef fectively their supervising producer
while W alt was focused on Snow White —appeared to be a milquetoast, but
he woul d tyrannize the other d irectors, who would in turn tyrannize the
animators. Next  to Geor ge Drak e, he may have been the least l iked person
at th e studio. B ill Peet said, “He’ s OK. He just doesn’ t m ean well.”
Another , less diplomatic underling called him a “son of a bitc h,” adding,
“and I’m one o f his best friend s.” W ard Kimball thought Sharpsteen was
abusive, especially to younger animators, because he was sensitive about
his own inability to draw well, but he also thought that Sharpsteen’ s sadism
was a payback f or the tongue-lashings he suf fered from W alt. “The verbal
beatings and the sleepless nigh ts I know he had (because I talked to his
wife) were a hell of a price to pay for getting his name up there on the
screen,” Kimball recalled. Sharpsteen himself said as mu ch: “I was
constantly called  upon to make decisions in behalf of him. Good decisions
rarely received commendation. Errors were dealt with, often rudely .”
As for balancing creativity and cost, W alt’ s constant bane, W alt and Roy
hit o n a bold new plan in ligh t of the need to speed Snow White.  They
would ta ke the 20 percent stake  in the company that they had bought from
Iwerks when he left the studio and hold it in a kind of tr ust for the
employees, doling out bonuses to the best and most ef ficie nt of them,
though even before the plan w as fully implemented, Roy suggested it be
revised so that b onuses earned remained with the company to help finance
Snow White  and then were “to be repaid to the bonus participants if and
when the feature is finished and pays its way out.” In short, the staf f would
be well rewarded if the film was well received.
Beginning in 1934, W alt had ha nded out bonuses, $32,000 that year , at
his own discretion. “I was always trying to find ways that I could
compensate my employees, if possible, that I was building the or ganization
for them as we ll as myself,” he would later testify , not en tirely self-
servingly . But as the studio grew and as the need to expedite production
intensified early in 1936, W alt felt he was no longer capable of determining
who deserved compensation. Decisions on incentives had to be made
objectively , even scientifically . Under the new bonus system, each
animator ’ s salar y was to be char ged to an account. The animator and the