# Página 554  
“dissatisfaction” and “torment.” W ard Kimball said the boyish Moore, who
was only thirty-four at war ’ s end, felt that his star was falling, and he would
grouse e ndlessly about how the studio was “giving him a bad de al.” Always
a he avy drinker , his growing discontent led to even longer binges, so much
so that Kimball, his assistant, frequently had to finish his drawings.
If M oore thought he was losing favor , he wasn’ t wrong. The n ew , more
modern minimalist and seemingly more artistic aesthetic tha t W alt was
pursuing with Dali and that he was encouraging as a way of k eeping pace
with a change i n visual tastes and of regaining his own favor with critics
was a long distance from Moore’ s aesthetic. The younger , more
academically trained animators like Frank Thomas (whom W alt personally
welcomed at the studio gate when he returned from service on April 1,
1946), and W oolie Reitherma n (whom W alt cornered for hours and
convinced to return when Reith erman visited the studio after hi s service to
pick up  some belongings) were now the fair -haired boys because they
wielded their pencils more nimb ly and they were more au courant. W ithin
this new  aesthetic where line a nd technique mattered more than emotion,
Moore’ s work began, Kimball s aid, “to look crude.” Whatever it possessed
in charm, it lacked in subtlety—or at least that was what the self-proclaimed
progressive animators, who had a stake in Moore’ s demise, seemed to think.
Moore a nd Norm  Fer guson, who had been a star even before M oore, “had
not followed what the studio had progressed in,” Eric Larson recalled—a
situation that Larson described as “tragic.” Ben Sharpsteen concurred,
saying t hat they  “lacked the ab ility to analyze animation and to grasp the
finesse it required,” and Sharp steen believed that Moore and Fer guson
realized that they were falling behind, which was why they  were both
miserable. Though Fer guson hung on, despite W alt’ s increasing
dissatisfaction with his work, Moore, hopelessly lost in drink, was fired in
August 1946. He had become, in W alt’ s term, deadwood.
Moore wasn’ t the only one who was losing his way in the postwar period.
So was W alt Disney . As his p lans met resistance that spring and as the
studio fa ced yet another financial crisis, he had become “psyc hologically
fragile,” in Frank Thomas’ s est imation. He had begun to lose his footing
and his confidence, and with Roy pressuring him to slash budgets and even