# Página 506  
lives at Pearl Ha rbor and wrote W alt about the necessity of winn ing the war ,
he a lso saw ne w business possibilities in America’ s involvement and
thought W alt’ s relationship with the coordinator of inter -American af fairs
could se rve as an entrée to othe r branches of government that would now
need films for training and publ ic relations. “[Y]ou should be a part of this,
W alt,” Kamen wrote, ur ging his boss to visit the capital, “and they need you
and want you and I think the trip is very important.”
In tr uth, though W alt had alway s disdained anything that was contrary to
the studio’ s “essential purpose ,” which was to entertain, he had begun
soliciting gover nment work long before the strike as one way out of the
studio’ s financial doldrums. In October 1940 he had met wit h a service
representative about training f ilms, and the next month he of fered his
assistance to the defense committee, which had been formed by the
Association of Motion Picture P roducers to cooperate in making movies for
the government. By March he had placed storyman Robert Carr in char ge of
a W alt Disney T raining Films Unit to solicit industrial and government
work, and that m onth Carr sent a memo to the educational directors of the
aircraft i ndustries of fering the studio’ s assistance. As the memo put it: “An
engineer or other representati ve of the client merely sits down at a
conference table in the Disney studio and tells his story to a group of
highly-trained m echanical draftsmen and artists.” The studio would do the
rest.
But W al t was leaving nothing t o chance. On April 3, 1941, he hosted a
luncheon and conference at the studio for government o f ficials and
representatives o f the defense industries—thirty people in all. “[W]e have
the plant, the equipment, and the personnel,” he told them, “and we’re
willing to do an ything we can t o help in any way .” He followed up with a
letter stating that he was motiva ted “solely by a desire to help a s best I can
in the present emer gency” and that he would make the films for cost and
without profit. The studio was or ganized in such a way , he l ied, that he
could make the films without hampering his own feature production, not
mentioning that the feature production was already imperiled by economics.
While h e waited for a respons e, he hired a Lockheed engineer , Geor ge
Papen, to help him make an animated instructional film titled