# Página 785  
recommended Raymond Massey , who had played Lincoln in John
Cromwell’ s 194 0 film Abe Lin coln in Illinois,  but W a lt feared  that Massey
might sound too theatrical and not homespun enough. Instead, h e invited to
the s tudio Royal Dano, who had  played Lincoln on an Omnibus  television
program, on the pretense that he would be filmed to help the programmers
devise body movements. As Imagineer Bob Gurr remembered it, W alt had
Dano deliver the speech, and when he finished, “W alt jumped up and said,
‘No! No ! No! Y ou don’ t understand. Do it again.’” When Dano delivered it
a se cond time, W alt leaped to his feet again, and again told D ano that his
performance wa s all wrong. After the third try W alt rose and led the entire
crew in “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.” Gurr said that at the time it
made no  sense to him. Only lat er did he learn that W alt was lo oking for a
weary , agonized  Lincoln and that he had finally elicited what he wanted
from Dano by provoking him.
But even after Lincoln was delivered to the fair and the public preview
drew ne ar , his problems weren’ t over . The Imagineers just couldn’ t get the
robot to  function properly . “Oh, yeah, [W alt] was upset,” Marc Davis
recalled, “but I must say I think he felt for us. He had to see the condition of
the guys  and what they were doing. And he would ask questions and say ,
‘W ell, g uys, I’ll get with you in the morning again,’” to work o ut the bugs.
At a  spe cial pre view for Robert Moses and the borough presidents of New
Y ork City , the robot performed  serviceably—“not as perfect  as we had
wanted, but he worked,” said Davis. But it was soon malfunctioning again,
and W alt even summoned Ub Iwerks to New Y ork to see if he could fix it.
“Y ou ne ver saw such a stack of electronics magazines,” said  one studio
employee of Iwerks’ s car go.
W alt wa s nervo us. On April 20 , the day Lincoln was schedu led to be
shown to a prev iew audience including Illinois governor Otto Kerner , UN
ambassador Ad lai Stevenson (a former Illinois governor), and the press
corps, he dallied outside the GE pavilion signing autographs before telling
designer Chuck Myall, “W ell, I guess we’ve prolonged this as long as we
can.” When he a rrived at the Illi nois pavilion, however , either Jack Gladish,
who had helped design Lincoln’ s head, or Dick Nunis, a Disneyland
executive, gave W alt a sobering  report: the robot was not reliable enough to