# Página 51  
school he propped up his books as a blind so he could draw . He spent hours
decorating the mar gins of his te xtbooks with pictures and then entertaining
his class mates b y rif fling them t o make them move. One classmate recalled
him going to the blackboard and drawing a perfect likenes s of T eddy
Roosevelt in chalk, while one teacher remembered him draw ing flowers
during an art assignment and animating them. Always encouraging, Daisy
Beck had him dr aw the posters for school events, and W alt Pfeif fer said that
he b egan drawing cartoon adv ertisements on glass slides for the Agnes
Theater . After school, after the route, while most of the boys were playing
basketball in the schoolyard, he, W alt Pfeif fer , and one or two other boys
interested in art would sit on a stone wall and draw . When a group of
neighborhood bo ys built a clubhouse, W alt decorated it with hi s drawings.
At h ome he took  his father ’ s Appeal to Reason  and practiced redrawing the
front-page cartoons of capital and labor until “I had them all down pat.”
This wa s what his Benton classmates remembered: W alt Disney drawing.
He drew constantly . He drew even though it was not alwa ys socially
acceptable to draw . “It was kind of sissy for a guy to draw ,” W alt Pfeif fer
admitted, but that did not deter W alt Disney . He drew and drew well for a
boy his age. He drew until it became the primary source of his identification
at B enton: W alt Disney , the artist. “Even in our old 7th grade in Miss
Beck’ s r oom,” a  classmate recalled, “we all knew you’d really be an artist +
genius o f some kind… when I heard once that you couldn’ t draw I sure set
them  straight. Because even in the 7th grade that’ s all you did.”
And it was not only at the Bent on School that W alt Disney was gaining
attention for his art. He hung around a barbershop at Thirty-first Street on
his paper route, just around t he corner from his house, id ly drawing
cartoons. Impressed, the proprietor , Bert Hudson, of fered W alt a free haircut
in ex change for the drawings an d later , when W alt did not need a cut, ten or
fifteen c ents. More important for W alt, Hudson hung the pictures in the
window in a sp ecial frame just as Doc Sherwood had hung th e picture of
Rupert. “It was a great stimulant to me to know my ef forts were
appreciated,” W alt would write Hudson more than thirty years later , “and
boy , how I loo ked forward to the showing of that weekly—or was it
monthly [—] cartoon in your shop.” One acquaintance remembered the