# Página 443  
was also great. “ I wanted a special show” was how he later put it. That was
part of the reason he had latched on to the notion of a customized sound
system for Fantasia.  In Ma y 1939, a month after the recordings in
Philadelphia, W alt had contact ed David Sarnof f, the head of the Radio
Corporation of America, proposing that RCA manufacture the new system,
which, W alt wrote, would “cre ate the illusion that the actual  Symphony
Orchestra is playing in the theater .” Sarnof f balked at the idea, saying that
while it was tech nically feasible , it was commercially problematic, but W alt
and Roy were pe rsistent. Each visited RCA in New Y ork that spring, and by
July , Roy had reached an agr eement by which RCA would make the
equipment so long as they could hold down the costs, estimated by RCA ’ s
engineer at $200,000. W alt had his six-track Fantasound.
Given th at it could be used onl y in a few selected theaters, Fantasound
was a very expensive proposition. But then so was the new studio and
Fantasia  it self, as well as  Bambi  and the prospective Peter Pan  and Alice in
W onderland —all of which began to tighten like a noose around W alt,
especially with the reduced rece ipts from overseas and with the  diminished
prospects for Pinocchio.  W alt didn’ t discuss the new economic
contingencies w ith his employees; it had always been a point of  honor with
him that he co uld resist financial pressures, that he could shelter his
employees and protect his films, and in any case he always expressed
nothing but disdain for money . Dave Hand recalled a meeting  where Roy
complained, as he often did, that the pictures were costing too much. “There
was complete silence,” Hand re lated. “Then W alt’ s loose eyebrow shot up
at an unusually sharp angle, and turning to Roy in an uncompromising
matter -of-fact st raight-from-the-shoulder answer , said quite si mply , ‘Roy ,
we’ll  make the pictures, you  get the money .’ That was that.”
Even be fore the success of Snow White,  W a lt himself m ade a generous
salary—among the highest in the film industry . After Snow White  his base
salary w as listed as $108,298, not including another $25,605 from the
studio’ s foreign corporations, a nd on March 1 1, 1940, he signed a seven-
year con tract wi th the studio at $2,000 a week, which again didn’ t include
compensation from the stock that he held. By comparison, Roy made
$72,000, and Gunther Lessing u nder $15,000. Still, as much as he actively