# Página 775  
Pollyanna, was about to shut do wn production on the film. Bill Anderson
and his wife were in England at the time, and Mrs. Anderso n had seen
Hayley there in her debut film, T iger Bay .  At his wife’ s s uggestion, Bill
Anderson rushed out to see the film, liked it, then had a print sent to W alt in
California. Pollyanna ’ s director , David Swift, wasn’ t impressed, but W alt
overrode him. A natural, unaf fected actress, Mills became one of the
studio’ s biggest stars, not only headlining hits like The Par ent T rap  and The
Moon-Spinners  but also becoming a recording artist for the Disney label.  
Since the days of Mickey Mous e, the name “Disney” had been a brand: the
best in what se emed to be, oxymoronically , mass-produced f olk art that
appealed to everyone from sophisticates to innocents. Indeed, W alt had
always pointedly insisted that  his films were not made primarily for
children or even primarily for profit, and few critics had treated them that
way , at least until the postwar period when the art lar gely disappeared and
there see med no  motive other th an profit. Beginning with Cinder ella,  W alt
received a new critical pass through most of the 1950s, but by the end of the
decade the live-action films—b road, simple, and clearly child-oriented—
had changed the brand and revoked the pass. Now the name “W alt Disney”
was syn onymous with wholeso me family entertainment that no one could
possibly mistake for art, folk or otherwise. As Dr . Max Raf ferty , the
superintendent of public instruc tion in California, put it in praising Disney ,
“His live movies have become lone sanctuaries of decency and health in the
jungle of sex and sadism created by the Hollywood producers of
pornography .”
W alt understood the change and defended it, no doubt in part because his
films proved so profitable. The Absent Minded Pr ofessor  grossed $8.9
million domestically on a budget of $1 million, The Shaggy Dog  $9.6
million, and The Par ent T rap  $9.3 million, while 101 Dalmatians  grossed
only $6.2 million. By comparison, two of the most popul ar films of
Hollywood’ s re igning star at the time, perky Doris Day , g rossed $7.4
million (Pillow T alk)  and $7.7 million (Lover Come Back) . (W alt had asked