# Página 471  
hire whomever he liked. But on August 9 W alt and Iwerks had lunch at the
studio, o ver which, as Iwerks later told it, W alt asked him wh at he really
wanted to do t here. Iwerks, always more interested in technology than
animation, said he answered, “Prowl around.” Overlooking their past
dispute, W alt assigned him to help develop a new optical camera for special
ef fects, illustrating both W alt’ s commitment to anything that would help his
studio regardless of his personal feelings and his attachment to his old
colleagues now that he presided over an increasingly impersonal
bureaucracy .
But he displayed no hint of sentiment when it came to newer employees,
especially as his dream of ut opia faded under the glare of economic
realities. W alt saw them purel y in instrumental terms: what could they
contribute to realizing his vision? Even a long-timer like Ben Sharpsteen
would say , “I a lways knew that he was only intimate with me up to a
purpose where he thought it could be worthwhile.” W alt thought nothing of
firing someone who he felt had outlived his usefulness, calling it “weeding
out mar g inal pe ople” or getting rid of “deadwood.” No one was safe, not
even me mbers of his own fam ily . When his sister -in-law Hazel Sewell
suf fered a nervous breakdown and he docked her pay , Sewell—who had
been at the studi o for eleven yea rs, eventually heading up the in k and paint
department—tendered her resignation, ar guing that her econ omies had
saved the studio tens of th ousands of dollars. W alt was brusque:
“Personally , I am greatly shocked by your unwarranted attitude. However , if
I were in your place and felt the  way you do about the or ganization where I
worked, I would probably do th e same thing.” Another longtime employee
complained that he was never promoted. “The reason that you have not
been put at the Head of your D epartment,” W alt wrote him coldly , “is that
we d o n ot feel that you are cap able of giving us the standard of work that
we m ust have…. If you will consider the quality of your wor k, I believe
you will  understand why you h ave not advanced further .” When Clarence
Nash, D onald D uck’ s voice, requested a raise, W alt talked to him “like a
Dutch u ncle in order to whittle  him down to his proper size,” and when
Pinto Colvig, who did the voices for Goofy and two of the dwarfs,
complained that he was being u nderpaid, W alt ordered him dismissed. “He
is just a clown and not at all the type of fellow we need to keep production