# Página 353  
the cons tant rev isions. “W atch to keep it from sounding like it had been
well-rehearsed,” he warned at the end of one story conference. “W e want
spontaneous feeling in it.”
In the end, even after all the final touches had been applied, W alt, ever
the perfectionist , was disappointed. “W e’ve worked hard and sp ent a lot of
money , and by this time we’re  a little tired of it,” he confe ssed to one
journalist shortl y after its completion. “I’ve seen so much of Snow White
that I am consci ous only of the places where it could be improv ed. Y ou see,
we’ve learned such a lot since w e started this thing! I wish I co uld yank it
back and do it all over again.” Even more than a decade later W alt was
sighing over the film’ s flaws. “There were some things in ‘Snow White’
that make me crawl when I see t hem now ,” he said. “The bridge  on her nose
floats all over h er face. And the  Prince jitters like he’ s got palsy .” He was
especially perturbed by the latter , so perturbed that Roy even suggested they
reanimate the scene to eliminate the shimmying. W alt leaped at the of fer ,
saying it would cost another $250,000 to $300,000. As Roy related it, “I
said for get it.” Snow White  would be released with the shimmy .  
If they had been  flying blind in making the feature, they were also flying
blind in  promoting and distributing it. They had had experience in
publicizing shor ts; they had no experience in publicizing a f eature film.
Nevertheless, af ter the film’ s reception at the studio screenings, W alt was
confident—almost too confident. He was fond of telling how , b efore Snow
White ’ s re lease, many in the industr y and the press had disparage d the
project and called it “Disney’ s Folly , which one paper actually did,” but this
was most likely just more self- dramatization of W alt overcoming another
purported hurdl e, since there seemed, if anything, to be tremendous
anticipation of the film almost from its inception. Indeed, at W alt’ s May
meeting in New Y ork with the R KO publicity staf f he encouraged them not
to think  that the picture would sell itself just because it was a  novelty . “I
want ev erybody to be sold on it so they won’ t be underestimat ing or over -
estimating the power of the pictu re to draw on its own,” he appr ised Roy of