# Página 134  
Co. who  joined the studio early in 1927 at W alt’ s ur ging, “and W alt—even
though h e expressed patience in his letters prior to my joining h im—didn’ t
show any . He became abusive and harassed me.” (Freleng had replaced
Ham Ha milton, who had left, F releng said, because he “couldn’ t bear the
abuse that W alt heaped upon him .”) W alt would “make insulting remarks to
me,” Fre leng sai d, and Freleng w ould then fire back. “W alt coul d make you
feel real  bad when he wanted t o,” said another early employee. “He was
that way ,” Hugh Harman conc urred. “Unless you were 100% for W alt,
unless you were doing for him, working for him, he thought you were
double-crossing him.”
Which, in fact, Harman was. T ired of the harangues and insults, he and
Ising had conspired to lure othe r animators, including Iwerks,  to abandon
W alt and  join them in starting their own rival studio. They had already held
discussions wit h producer Jesse Lasky . “This will leave W alt in a
mellavahess,” Ising gleefully wrote Carmen Maxwell, an old Laugh-O-
Gram colleague, in August 1926, “but business is business.”* But before
they could actualize the plan, W alt fired Ising for falling asleep at the
animation camera with his hand on the button. He fired Freleng too after
spotting him riding a double-decker bus when he was supposed to be at
work. Freleng said he arrived at the studio the next day to find his desk
cleared. Before he left, Ising d escribed the studio as a “den of strife and
vexation.” Iwerks, who suf fered W alt’ s new abuse with his typical
equanimity and counseled othe rs to do the same, described the studio as
“Koo-Koo Hatchery” and “Knut Mansion.” But the resentments would
linger; t hey would linger long, and they would linger hard. They would
linger until they wrecked the studio.
IV
Now there was a sense of crisis . The previous, June, W alt had put his staf f
on a two-and-a-half-week-per -film schedule and had even awarded bonuses
to sp eed the film s’ delivery to o ne every two weeks, but betwee n personnel
changes triggered by W alt’ s abusiveness and other bumps like Iwerks’ s