# Página 352  
would constitute the major test of the film’ s ef fectiveness, tho ugh by this
time W a lt had little doubt they would succeed. “There is going t o be a lot of
sympathy for these little fellow s,” he said at a story conference that July .
“W e can  tear their [the audience’ s] hearts out if we want to by putting in a
little cry ing.” Frank Thomas, Fred Moore’ s onetime assistant, was given the
assignment of animating the dw arfs’ grief from Albert Hurter ’ s drawings,
and he animate d it with as little movement as possible—ba sically held
poses with tears crawling down the dwarfs’ cheeks and, as W alt had
instructed at a story meeting, “concentrating on Grumpy when he breaks
down and starts to cry ,” cracking his stoic facade. As with every scene, W alt
tinkered with this one before cleanup—“The movement on the d warfs is too
abrupt.” “As it is now there are two sort of hold positions on Grumpy that
seem ou t of character , then suddenly he breaks.” “Stagger the blinks on the
animals instead of having them all blink at once.”—and th en he was
finished. Wheth er he liked it or not, he had to be finished in order to deliver
the film on schedule.
But he didn’ t lik e doing it. Whe n the animators were being rushed in late
spring, D ave Ha nd said that W a lt “is actually tearing out his heart okaying
some of the stuf f which you know he would like to see better ,” and then
excused him saying, “He is trying to move the picture as best he can.” At
one sweatbox session W alt lamented that the dwarfs acted as if they were
following directions on an exposure sheet and not “as if they k new in their
minds w hat they  were going to do.” At another he bemoaned that the Magic
Mirror seemed to be working too hard to say his words. And at another he
criticized the Queen for lookin g as if “she was carrying a big load of
laundry ,” for moving suddenly without anticipation, and for having
eyebrows that were too extreme . He was especially rough on Fred Moore,
who had animated the dwarfs, sitting with him in the sw eatbox and
repeatedly revie wing his scenes, fixating again and again on the size of one
of G rumpy’ s fingers, which M oore, intentionally or not, had refused to
correct, until W alt ordered him to do so. He even grumbled th at he found
Adriana Caselotti’ s singing vo ice too strident. “When anybody sings, it
should be good or he shouldn’ t sing at all,” W alt told the sta f f. And all
along he was aware of the real d anger that he himself posed to his beloved
project even as he was shepherding it: that it would lose spontaneity from