# Página 599  
turning wheels and the coach’ s filigrees. At the same time W alt was having
individual scene s run for ARI audiences as soon as the animators finished
them.
In N ovember , Sharpsteen inform ed W alt that Bill Peet was working on
the D ress Building sequence, in  which Cinderella gets her gown ; composer
Ollie W a llace had recorded a track for “So This Is Love”; Ham  Luske and
W ilfred Jackson  were continuing to shoot live-action scenes; and writers
W inston Hibler and T ed Sears had moved from Cinder ella  to  the Ichabod
Crane  story . There was nothing unusual about any of this. What was
unusual was Sharpsteen having to tell W alt these things whil e the studio
pressed on with its first fully a nimated feature in nearly eight years, the
feature W alt had been despera te to make. In the past W alt would have
known i t all already . In the pas t W alt would have been there supervising
every last detail. But then, in the past it would have mattered.  
Nothing seemed to matter because W alt felt that everything now was
hopelessly compromised. As always when he was disengaged, he traveled
—this time to Smoke T ree, to Arrowhead Springs, to Alisal Ranch, and to
Oak Creek Lodge in Arizona. In June 1948, after the release of Melody
T ime,  he took  a three-week cruise to Hawaii. It was a chance to spend time
with his  family and for get the studio. He was especially close to Sharon,
whom o ne of W alt’ s secretaries once described as “sort of like a  little puppy
dog,” willing to go with him on junkets like the one in Alaska or on a night
train to San Fran cisco or on a transcontinental train trip to New Y ork, where
the two of them rode in the eng ine for a spell. He still routinely drove both
girls to their respective schools on his way to the studio each day , and he
was an involved parent, even scolding Sharon’ s principal for giving the
children too much homework because it took away from fami ly time. He
was also a lovin g and supportive father , encouraging Diane whe n she began
attending the Chouinard Art In stitute (“He would collect all m y drawings
and mak e me think I was wonderful,” Diane would recall) and attending
Sharon’ s school  plays and afterw ard telling her how good she had been. At