# Página 812  
head” since “[e]verybody beats  me!” Still, W alt, who had a hand-tooled
bowling bag, took the game s eriously enough to arrange to send thirty
bowlers from his Beverly Hills c lub to Smoke T ree for a tournament, and to
fly w ith a group of friends to Bu ck Hill Falls in Pennsylvania to  compete in
the U.S. Doubles T ournament. He and Lillian, who, according to Diane,
found th e idea of bowling tourna ments “silly ,” even discussed an Australian
vacation with two fellow enthusiasts and their wives to coinci de with the
Australian Cham pionship Lawn  Bowling T ournament there. These lawn
bowlers had become W alt Disney’ s closest friends.
T o s pend the res tless ener gy that wasn’ t being exhausted by the studio, he
still trav eled, almost always accompanied by Lillian and always booking
double b eds—the annual summ er trips to Europe, a cruise to B ora Bora, a
Fourth o f July spent in Sun V all ey , a weekend in Baja for marlin fishing, a
junket to Mexico City for People to People, a trip to Banf f with Diane and
the gran dchildren. When the studio bought its planes—a Beechcraft Queen
Air in January 1963 and the Gulfstream in March 1964—W alt began
zipping around the country as he had zipped around Europe. As someone
who had  made a practice of de taching himself from reality and who had
used eve n his trains less as a w ay of connecting places than of isolating
himself from them, he liked the  air . He had always wanted to learn to fly
himself (“badly ,” Sharon said), but Roy discouraged it, apparently fearing
that som e tragedy might befall him. So instead he logged time in the jet—
150 hours between August 1965 and August 1966 alone.
Many of those hours were spen t being ferried from Burbank t o Smoke
T ree, where he had renovated h is cottage and installed a swim ming pool,
lar gely t o entertain his grandchildren, upon whom he lavished attention as
he had once la vished attention  upon his daughters. He was especially
ecstatic when, in November 19 61, Diane gave birth to a second son and
named him after her father: W alter Elias Disney Miller . “I’m thrilled to
have a male heir bearing my name,” he wrote director Robert  Stevenson,
calling i t the “ BIG NEWS ” and still complaining that she hadn’ t named her
firstborn for him. W alt loved the children’ s company . He would  have them
out t o Sm oke T ree, or he would drive them to school and have them picked
up a fterward and taken to the studio where they played in his o f fice, or he