# Página 667  
the inferior product the studio was producing. Now W alt approached the
networks. He went to the National Broadcasting Company , the Columbia
Broadcasting System, and ABC . (This may have been the meeting at which
he waxed so enthusiastic about Disneyland.) All three demanded that W alt
shoot a pilot or sample episode. W alt was nonplussed and irrit ated. “W ell,
why should I make a pilot film with all the years that I’ve been in the film
business?” Cottrell said he asked. Cottrell believed that W alt was so
discouraged, he dropped the idea and decided to put all his ef forts into
designing Disneyland instead.
But how ever much he may have resented the networks’ high-han dedness,
W alt Dis ney kne w he needed tel evision, needed it to provide th e money for
Disneyland. All through 1953, as the fraction of American families with
television sets reached two-thirds, Roy continued meeting with advertising
agencies and various corporate sponsors about a series, and he was even
negotiating seri ously with General Foods, though he told W alt that he
thought it advisable not to mention anything yet about the financing of
Disneyland. Tha t, he said, coul d be a bar gaining chip; he would concede
some points in the television budget in return for the sponsor taking a
position in the theme park. W ith a third party involved, either by buying
debentures in the park or by tak ing common stock, he thought he might be
able to lure what he called “other friendly associated interests, such as
W estern Printing,” which published the Disney books and comics.
Meanwhile, as the plans for the park continued to jell, as the studio
purchased the property , and as d esperation began to set in, Roy sped to New
Y ork lat e in September to discuss yet again the possibility of a television
series w ith ABC but also to discuss with them now , unavoidably , the idea of
the netw ork investing in Disneyland. Roy had already left for  New Y ork
when B ill Cottrell sent him a n outline for four television p ossibilities,
which apparentl y , after all the months of deliberation, had never theless been
conceived in such haste that t he main program, the proposed one-hour
series, was only vaguely described as incorporating material from Disney
movies, promotions for new Disney films, and an ongoing progress report
on Disneyland. Cottrell also suggested a five-day-a-week, fifteen-minute
program called The Mickey Mouse Club  to air live from Disneyland, a