# Página 649  
As with virtually all the features, while the preparation for Peter Pan
dragged on, the studio encount ered dif ficulties. At one point s hortly after
the war ,  impatient with the delays, W alt ordered director Jack  Kinney to
work on sequences consecutively rather than finish the entire script before it
was sent to be storyboarded, so that a scene would be app roved at a
morning story meeting and then immediately be put into d evelopment.
When K inney as ked W alt if he wanted to see what they were doing as they
proceeded, W alt  insisted that they keep going until the storyb oards were
finished. After what Kinney said were six months and thirty-nine
storyboards bearing one hundred sketches each, he made his two-and-a-
half-hour presentation to W al t. When he finished, W alt sat silently ,
drummed his fingers, then ann ounced, “Y’know , I’ve been thinking of
Cinderella.”
Now , ev en after  Cinder ella  had  bee n comp leted and released, Peter Pan
continued to inch forward. As with Cinder ella,  W alt had an entire live-
action version shot on the soundstage. It starred Bobby Driscoll as Peter and
Hans Conried as Captain Hook, both of whom would do the voices for
those characters, and Conried said he would be called into  the studio
intermittently ov er a two-and-a-half-year period to do a few days’ or a few
weeks’ w ork. B ut with the live action to work from, W alt complained that
he t hought the animators had  let too much of Driscoll seep into the
drawings. “Som e of these Peter  Pans look like hell,” W alt told Milt Kahl.
“They are too m asculine, too old, There is something wrong d own there.”
“Y ou want to know what’ s wrong?” Kahl replied. “What is wrong is that
they don’ t have any talent in the place.”
Kahl was right t hat the talent an d commitment at Burbank had c ontinued
to de cline, but e ven the talent th e studio did have struggled. St oryman Bill
Peet thought it was another example of too many individuals contending
against one another and said tha t the picture finally got moving when just a
few of the staf f huddled to finalize the material. Still, they wer e having to
do it  the mselves without the guidance that W alt had always provided. In the
golden days W alt had imposed his vision and settled disputes . Now W alt
himself was uncertain. Frank Thomas, who was char ged with animating
Captain Hook, said W alt couldn’ t decide whether Hook should b e a slightly