# Página 385  
Sharon up from the hospital lest  someone recognize the Disneys. When the
fact of the adoption was cited nearly twenty years later in a pro file of W alt
for Look  magazine, he w rote the editor f uming, “I do not care what you say
about m e, but deeply resent your reference to my daughter Sharon’ s
adoption.” ( Look  st opped  the presses and deleted the line.) In any case, their
mutual l ove of Sharon seemed to begin a rapprochement betwe en W alt and
Lilly , and shortly after Snow White ’ s r elease they may have b een
investigating a second adoption,  which, for whatever reason, never came to
fruition.
His family became more important to him as his social activities
continued to diminish. Throughout Snow White ’ s long production W alt had
been tense and frequently ill,  even after the trip to Europe that had
temporarily reinvigorated him. V arious doctors visited him a t the studio
several times each week, sometimes daily , to provide everything from hair
loss tre atments (despite his abundant and wild shock) to chiropractic
sessions for a polo injury that would bother him for the rest of his life,
forcing him to h unch over to rel ieve the pain when he sat and stabbing him
awake at night. Though during  the production he continued to  play polo,
which h ad also diverted time from Lillian, his interest had waned after an
accident at the R iviera Country Club on October 28, 1935. During a match
there be tween M GM and the D isney studio, the horse of a thirty-one-year -
old cont ract player at MGM named Gordon W estcott apparently collided
with W a lt’ s, and W estcott fell; by one account, W alt’ s horse then toppled
onto the young man. He died three days later without ever having regained
consciousness. A month later Roy informed W alt that he had decided to quit
polo and was disposing of his ponies. W alt reduced his playing t ime until in
May 1938 he wrote Riviera tha t the “studio demands so much of my time
that I am going to have to give up polo entirely .” He requested t hat the club
field of fers for ten of his twelve ponies—two he was having brought to
Grif fith Park so he and Lillian c ould ride there—and, failing a s ale, he said
he woul d turn them out to pastu re. From this point on, his primary athletic
activity would be badminton.
Less time for polo meant more time for Lillian, and a month after
notifying Riviera that he was divesting himself of his ponies, he and Lillian