# Página 717  
Indeed, Lillian, who had never been particularly social, furthe r contracted
her life around her grandchildre n. “[W]hat with our new grand daughter in
the family , I a m having quite a time these days in getting her to go
anywhere,” W alt wrote the head of a charity that was holding a function and
had invited the Disneys to attend.
Though W alt cosigned the mort gage for the Millers’ new house, he had
another source of financing in mind for the young family . For y ears various
authors and publishers had begged him to cooperate on a biography . W alt
had always demurred, saying that he was still in his prime a nd that any
biography would consequently be incomplete. Even when he did
grudgingly agre e to a series in The Satu r day E vening Post,  he was frank
that his biography would only be a promotion for Alice in W onderland,
telling th e writer that he recogn ized “in writing such a story or serial based
on life stories, it is frequently  necessary to change actual events and
experiences and to dramatize and fictionalize them”—a veiled admission
that he had been embellishing for years.
That series never came to pass, but shortly after the Disneyland  television
show hit the air , W alt was approached by another writer , Paul Hollister , who
had written an earlier piece on Disney for The Atlantic Monthly  and had
been commissio ned by the magazine to do a biographical series on him,
which w ould then be released as  a book. Hollister , who had been led by the
Atlantic  to  believe it had W alt’ s authorization, completed the book, only to
discover that W alt had not autho rized it and, worse, that Roy , to whom W alt
had passed the m anuscript for approval, vehemently advised W alt not to let
it be published because its styl e was “annoying” and its facts  inaccurate.
Incensed when he was of fered a small payment to drop the boo k, Hollister
accused W alt of having “old Fix er Roy” try to buy him of f becau se Roy and
W alt knew that Hollister needed money . Neither the series n or the book
ever appeared.
But now W alt d ecided that if a nyone were to capitalize on his story , it
should be his daughters. Early in 1956 The Satur day Evening Post
approached W al t once again about a biographical series, and W a lt countered
by p roposing that Diane be at least the nominal writer . “I ca n’ t get any