# Página 779  
interest in Disneyland to WDP .) Now at the end of 1960, as the seven-year
personal services contract approached its expiration—it had previously
been ext ended for one year—Loyd W right, W alt’ s attorney and one of the
most prominent lawyers in Los Angeles, was asking Roy for a 5 percent
share of the gros s of all the films that W alt supervised and 10 percent of the
gross of  all the films that he personally produced. Roy , who had always
been in the untenable position of having to navigate between his brother
and his company , was adamantly opposed. He thought that no one, not even
W alt, was entitled to a share of the gross, only a share of the profits.
Over the years the brothers had  had their dif ferences over mo ney , over
control, and over the direction in which to take the company . “Y ou could
hear the m shout ing at each othe r all the time, even through closed doors,”
W alt’ s l ongtime secretary Dolores V oght would say . “The language was
terrible.” Roy’ s son, Roy E. Disney , said that he always knew when his
father and W alt had had a figh t because he could hear the car door slam
when his father came home. W alt was often disdainful of Roy , dismissing
him as a businessman with little sensitivity to art. Once when W alt screened
a fil m f or Roy and Roy afterward asked how long the runnin g time was,
W alt sna pped, “ W e work for ye ars creating these pictures and all Roy can
say is, ‘How long does it run?’” After surviving so many prophecies of
doom, he also th ought that Roy was fainthearted. As John Hench explained
the ongoing, unabating tension , “Roy’ s great ambition in life , I suppose,
was to stay out of debt. And it was W alt’ s method in life to keep Roy
constantly in debt.”
These d isputes were typical of Hollywood, the product  of the
fundamental clash between the creative and financial halves of the motion
picture business. It may have been occasionally exacerbated at Burbank
because, unlike the situation in o ther studios, where the filmmakers were in
the W es t and the businessmen were in the East, the creative a nd financial
arms sh ared not  only the same  coast but the same building. The tension,
many f elt, was also a sou rce of the company’ s strength—W alt’ s
adventurism balanced by Roy’ s pragmatism. By the same token, if Roy
balanced W alt’ s recklessness, he  also balanced his callousness. Harry T ytle
saw thei r individual contributio ns in terms of family dynamics. W alt was