# Página 778  
scrutiny from the Securities and  Exchange Commission and even a possible
stockholders’ revolt over the sweetheart contract with W alt.
The pro blem was broaching the issue with his brother . As Roy’ s
biographer , Bob  Thomas, told it, Roy decided to confront W alt over what
was exp ected to  be a long weekend at Smoke T ree. What ensued instead
was a one-day shouting matc h—“a lot of yelling and screaming and
everything else,” Ron Miller , who was there with Diane, told Thomas—
after wh ich Roy  and Edna prom ptly returned to Los Angeles. W alt couldn’ t
see why anyone would possibly  object to his contract. “I tried t o explain to
W alt one time that even though everything was proper and aboveboard,”
studio at torney N eil McClure told Thomas, “he had to be like C aesar ’ s wife
—above suspici on. W alt blew . ‘ What do you mean? I haven’ t done a damn
thing that’ s wrong.’”
W alt’ s re lationship to WED was a sensitive issue. W alt loved WED and
guarded its independence from WDP and from Roy , moving it in 1961 at
the time  of the Ford exhibit to a rented building in a Glenda le industrial
park tha t Imagin eers called the P ancake House because it had a high peaked
roof and was painted orange and blue like the Internationa l House of
Pancakes franch ises. As Disneyland expanded and as the w orld’ s fair
contracts came in, WED had grown too, to three hundred employees,
necessitating or ganizational charts and building plans; but W alt continued to
regard it as his refuge from the studio and its bureaucracy . “Nobody had to
ask anyone at the studio for permission,” Bill Cottrell said. “If you wanted
to st art d eveloping a thing like A udio-Animatronics, you’d do i t as long as
you had the money to do it. And by this time, W alt had the money .”
The reason W alt had the money was WED’ s contract and his own
contract with WDP . W alt not o nly received the royalty for the use of his
name and the p ercentages from his personal investments in films; WED
also received engineering and design fees from WDP and the grosses of the
train and  the monorail at Disneyland, both of which were owned by WED,
presumably on the grounds th at W alt had developed these attractions
personally . In fiscal year 1960 those fees amounted to $156,000 paid to
W alt himself and $188,835 pai d to WED. (By this time he had sold his