# Página 528  
The bigger change was philosophical—what Carl Nater , whom W alt had
put in char ge of the government  films, called a necessary reprog ramming of
the employees’ “mental equipment.” The studio that had emphasized
quality no longer put any prem ium on quality . Ef ficiency and economy
were par amount. Early on, Hal Adelquist, the head of personnel,  wrote W alt
that the economies on The New Spirit —rushing anima tion through without
sweatboxing, showing directors drawings instead of tests, having cleanup
men tou ch up roughs as they were delivered—were to be standard operating
procedure now . “W e must throw out entirely the trial and error methods, the
redo sys tems,” Adelquist advise d W alt. “W e must restrict Animators to one
test. W e must ab olish layout cleanups and all animation must be restricted
to 2’ s [meaning two exposures] on a single cel. Complicated pans, dif ficult
scene m echanics and multiplane planning, must, by necessit y from the
standpoint of cost and speed, go by the boards.” Simply put, the Disney
studio, which had prided itself on its excellence, was now to be like every
other animation studio, priding itself on its expedience. Or , as Roy proudly
told Fortune,  “I really  believe  that W alt is beginning to know what a dollar
is.”
The irony , the te rrible irony for W alt Disney , was that for all the  shortcuts
and economizing  it had imposed , the war was the one thing that was saving
him. Had he been dependent on his features and shorts, the studio almost
certainly would have been driven into bankruptcy and forced to close. It
wasn’ t th at W alt  was making mu ch on the government work; he  char ged the
government an average of $12 a foot and sometimes as little a s $4, where
his c ommercial animations had cost roughly $65 a foot and so metimes as
much a s $250. (He wasn’ t m aking as much income personally either ,
having voluntarily taken a cut from $2,000 a week to $850.) Though the
Disneys added overhead char ge s, the studio, partly out of patriotism and
partly ou t of naïveté, was still a sking the government only for c osts, which
enraged Joe Rosenber g. At a meeting in January 1942, where Geor ge
Morris a nd Gunther Lessing were discussing the Bank of America loans,
Rosenber g snapped that he was “passing on loans every day to concerns
doing go vernment work and in not one instance was there any question of
the contractor making a fair profit.” When Morris counter ed that the
government film s provided a “show case” for the studio, Rosenb er g warned