# Página 115  
requisite of short subjects such  as ‘ FELIX ’, ‘ OUT OF  THE INKWELL ’
and ‘ ALICE .’” When he ship ped his second Alice, Alice Hu nting in  Africa,
late in January , he averred that h e had “made a good deal of im provement”
and assured W inkler somewhat abjectly that “I will make it a po int to inject
as many  funny gags and com ical situations into future productions as
possible.” She wrote back sayin g that she found the comedy still wanting
and warned that “future productions must be of a much higher standard than
those we have already seen .” Ultimately she rejected the film as
unreleasable and demanded that W alt redo it.
If th is demoralized W alt, he certainly did not show it, any more than he
had displayed defeat in Kansas City . He seemed impervious, continuing to
for ge ahead. By early February  he had moved his studio next door to a
nearly id entical building, this time occupying the entire floor . Now anyone
approaching saw  the name “Di sney Bros.” in gold leaf on the lar ge front
window . Behind  the window wa s Roy’ s of fice, just a nook really , with his
desk at the front right and a utility table in the center , where h e and W alt
punched holes in the cels to ke ep them immobile on the came ra stand. T o
the left was a row of tables for inkers and painters—the people who traced
W alt’ s d rawings onto the cels in ink and then painted them black, gray , or
white be fore sen ding them to be  photographed. At the rear , thr ough a long
entranceway , wa s the camera room where the cartoons were shot and film
stock wa s stored , and to the right of the camera room at the back behind the
front of fice was the animation room, where desks were lined up against the
far right wall.
As y et W alt had  no one to sit at those desks. It was essentially a two-man
operation. W alt conceived the stories, directed the live action, drew the
animations, and  timed the exposures so that the movements w ere smooth.
Roy did  the books, occasionally  manned the camera, and even washed the
cels so they cou ld be reused, tho ugh he still tired easily and often spent his
afternoons back  at the apartmen t resting. (They had asked Ray and Herb to
join them , but the brothers declined.) In January they hired three women, to
ink the outlines of the drawings on the cels and paint them, and two men,
who pro bably h elped operate the animation camera and generally assisted.
The next month they hired their first animator , Rollin “Ham” Hamilton.