# Página 559  
way to what ma ny critics regarded as cheap sentimentality an d kitsch in
Make Mine Music  and Fun and  Fancy Fr ee,  as if the films h ad been created
by comm ittee for money , which they were. The critic Richard Schickel
believed that it was when Disney began disavowing claims  to art and
emphasizing his common man persona after the war that the intellectuals
began disavowin g him, but the  process had in fact started with Fantasia,
when W alt’ s artistic aspirations had been highest. For those who thought
that Fantasia  had exposed W alt’ s cultural obtuseness, the compilation films
only confirmed it. “Suppose yo u visit a friend,” wrote one former admirer
in th e le ft-wing Theatr e Arts  i n June  1946. “Y ou know that he has a warm
heart and is kin d to animals, that his sense of humor is infectious, his
professional skill beyond compa re. But when you enter his house you find
to your dismay that his walls are festooned with second-rate art” and “his
furniture is carelessly assembled  with little regard for harmony or any other
concern except to fill space.” Th is wouldn’ t cause you to hate the man, the
critic said; it wo uld only cause you to “admit with regret that his taste was
deplorable.” W alt Disney was now that man.
II
He was no lon ger the king of animation, only one among a group of
pretenders to the throne. The in tellectuals and critics who had fawned over
him in the 1930s and anointed him one of America’ s greatest artists now
preferred his competitors. For years everyone else, remarked one animator
at a rival studio, was in a “pack of greyhounds chasing a mechanical
rabbit.” Everyon e had imitated him. Mickey Mouse had spawn ed a host of
other mice, dogs, cats, pigs, a frog, even a black boy named Bosko who
resembled Mickey—all trying to claim Mickey’ s crown. The Silly
Symphonies had spawned W arn er Bros. Merrie Melodies, Harman-Ising’ s
Happy Harmonies, Iwerks’ s Comicolor Classics, the Fleischers’ Color
Classics, and Charles Mintz’ s Color Rhapsodies. And even Snow White  had
spawned the Fleischer brothers’ feature-length animations Gulliver ’ s
T ravels  and Mr . Bug Goes to T own  as well as W alte r Lantz’ s prospective Ali
Baba,  w hich was sco tched almost as soon as it was announced be cause
Universal did not have the money for it. For years rival anima tion studios