# Página 69  
of fered him fifty dollars a month. W alt, later admitting he would have
worked for much less, was so g rateful, he said, “I could have kissed him!”
His first impulse was to tell his aunt Mar garet, who now lived  with Uncle
Robert i n a nearby hotel and w ho, W alt still believed, had la unched his
artistic career by bringing him  those tablets and pencils in  Marceline.
“Auntie, look, they’re paying me to draw pictures. They’re paying me to
draw pi ctures,” he gushed. It was a disappointment, a “kind of a
heartbreak,” W alt called it, when Aunt Mar garet, now aged, frail, and
crippled, showed so little enthusiasm for his achievement.
But W al t himse lf could barely contain his joy . He was, at sev enteen, a
professional artist and felt he w as “making a great success,” as  he later put
it. The work was  illustrating advertisements and catalogs, and he  admitted it
was not terribly creative, especially since he only did “rough s,” the raw
outlines for the ads, after his bo sses had laid them out. In fact, most of his
drawings were redrawn by Rubin or Pesmen, so much so that W alt himself
did not always recognize them  when they appeared in print. Still, it was
valuable experience. From his brief training in art school, W alt aimed for
fineness in his drawing. At Pesmen-Rubin he learned about ex pediency—
about cutting, pasting over , scratching out with razor blades, using a
pantograph to copy drawings, and anything else that would get the job
finished quickly . He worked doggedly . Pesmen remembered assigning W alt
the front-cover advertisement for a doughnut shop in the Newman Theater
magazine. When  he approached W alt at the end of the day , t he boy was
grinning. W alt had done both t he front and  b ack cover ads and had even
added some details that Pesmen had not included in his original layout.
His joy was s hort-lived. In late November or early December the
Christmas adver tising rush was over , and W alt was amicably ter minated. He
hooked on as a  holiday employee at the post of fice, where his brother
Herbert worked,  and delivered m ail until the end of the year . T hen, jobless
again, h e stayed  with Herbert’ s family and Roy in the Bellefontaine house
and drew in his bedroom, still nursing the hope that he might land himself a
comic strip or a job as a politica l cartoonist. (One cartoon of his drawn that
month had a b aby wearing a sash declaring “New Y ear of 1920” and
standing outside a door labeled “The W orld,” which was bursting under