# Página 187  
Roy , add ing that he and Lessing were trying to work out a settlement with
Powers. Indeed, despite all the bad blood between them, Powers hadn’ t
given up  trying to keep W alt. U ndercutting Iwerks, he told Lessing that he
was wil ling to give W alt a sala ry of $2,000 a week, a staggering sum in
1930, if W alt would fulfill the current contract and sign anoth er allowing
Powers to distribute the Mickeys the following year .
Remarkable as it may seem, W alt still hadn’ t entirely closed the door on
Powers—Roy was terrified that Powers would somehow sweet-talk W alt
into signing another contract—but he had become too disil lusioned by
Powers’ s unwill ingness to make an accounting of profits and by his stealing
Iwerks to see him as anything but a last resort, and he was counting on a
new dist ributor taking him on now that Mickey Mouse was so successful.
“Powers is crooked,” Lillian wr ote Roy and Edna, no doubt echoing W alt,
“so I don’ t know how it will all turn out.” At the same time W alt had
received an of fer from W arner Bros. to buy the studio outright, had once
again approached Felix Feist, the sales manager for MGM, about picking up
the Mickeys, and was talking to Columbia itself about a similar deal.
The dif ference between this confrontation and his confrontation with
Mintz w as that W alt now seemed to have the upper hand—the Mickeys,
after all, were popular—but Powers was as shrewd and incorrigible as
Mintz w as bullying. Though MGM was ready to conclude a deal, Powers
scared th em of f by threatening a lawsuit, and W alt worried that Powers and
Columbia might collude someho w to force the Disneys to re-sign with him.
Roy also worried that if they broke with Powers, Powers would set up
another Cinephone operation to  compete with theirs and they would never
be able to mee t their royalty guarantee. As if Powers’ s thre ats weren’ t
enough, that same week John  Randolph Bray , the animation pioneer ,
demanded a meeting with W al t during which Bray told him that he was
going to enforce his patents and limit the number of cartoons allowed on the
market. “Boy , they are gunning  for him from all sides,” Lillian wrote Roy
and Edn a, “and he is dying to g et back and make pictures, is getting pretty
nervous.”