# Página 26  
Though it was set within the city , the area to which they m oved the
spring o f 1893, in the northwestern section, was primitive. It had only two
paved roads and had just begun to be platted for construction, which made
it a propitious place for a carpe nter . Elias contracted to help b uild homes,
and one  of his sons recalled that Flora too would go out to the sites and
“hammer and saw planks with the men.” Still, by his wife’ s estimate Elias
averaged only seven dollars a w eek. But he was a Disney , and he had not
surrendered his dreams. Using Robert’ s contacts and leveraging his own
house through mortgages, he began buying plots in the subdivision,
designing residences with Flora’ s help and then building them—small
cottages for workingmen like himself. By the end of the decade he and a
contracting associate had built at least two additional homes on the same
street on  which he lived—one o f which he sold for $2,500 and the other of
which h e and his partner rented out for income. In ef fect, und er Robert’ s
tutelage, Elias had become a real estate maven, albeit an extremely modest
one.
But by this time , already in his  forties, he had begun to place his hope
less in success, which seemed h ard-won and capricious, than in faith. Both
the D isneys and the Calls had b een deeply religious, and Elias and Flora’ s
social life in Chicago now orbited the nearby Congregational church, of
which th ey were among the mos t devoted members. When the congregation
decided to reor ganize and then v oted to erect a new building just two blocks
from the Disneys’ home, Elias was named a trustee as well as a member of
the building committee. By th e time the new church, St. Paul’ s, was
dedicated in October 1900, the family was attending services not only on
Sundays but during the week. O ccasionally , when the minister was absent,
Elias wo uld eve n take the pulpi t. “[H]e was a pretty good preacher ,” Flora
would remember . “[H]e did a lot of that at home, you know .”
It would become embedded in Disney family lore that when Flora had a
baby bo y in the upper bedroom of their T ripp house on December 5, 1901,
the child ’ s name  was part of a pastoral bar gain. As the story went, Flora and
the wife  of the new young minister , W alter Parr , were pregnant  at the same
time. El ias and Parr agreed tha t if their wives both had sons, Elias would
name hi s after the minister and the minister would name his after Elias.