# Página 389  
It had. Though Snow White  had cost a staggering sum of money (over
$100,000 for the story devel opment alone, nearly $300,0 00 for the
animation, and well over $1 million overall) and though the studio had gone
seriously into debt to finance it  (the Disneys had borrowed a total of $2.3
million from the Bank of America between May 1936 and May 1938), the
film’ s su ccess h ad more than re warded them. On May 20, 193 8, just five
months after Snow White ’ s premiere, they retired the entire obligation,
vindicating W alt’ s belief in the project. “Roy brought Mr . Gi annini for a
meeting with me to hurry me along to finish Snow White, ” W alt gloated to a
group of  his animators over lunch after the conference. “[I]nste ad I got Mr .
Giannini so interested and excite d about our next project, Pinocchio,  that he
advanced us another bundle of money…. I beat Roy in this one.” Moreover ,
the studio for the first time was actually running ahead of sche dule on the
shorts, a nd RKO, the distributor , had of fered to set up a revolv ing fund of
over $1 million  upon which D isney could draw for its next two features
should they renew the contract. Reporting to Roy that RKO was willing to
give the m anything they asked for , Gunther Lessing joked, “W e already
took the  last drop of blood, so it  may not be equitable to extract liver , heart
and stom ach. Ho wever , no matter what we do W alt will raise hell and want
a better deal.” He ended: “The re is no doubt in my mind that everybody
connected with RKO considers Disney as the most important and prominent
element in RKO. W e are absolutely essential to them.”  
While W alt was waxing expansi ve over Snow White ’ s success, he wanted to
deliver o n his promise that everyone at the studio would benefit from it.
That May he ha d stormed into Geor ge Morris’ s of fice and demanded that
the bonuses on Snow White  now be paid. (They initially amounted to
$1 15,000, thoug h in June he declared that each employee wo uld receive
three m onths’ salary , which finally cost the studio roughly $750,000.)
“They deserve it,” W alt told col umnist Ed Sullivan. “They made the picture
possible, didn’ t they?” After ye ars of working on Saturdays until noon, he
also decided to p ut the studio on  a five-day week that summer . Finally , in a
gesture of gratitude, he announced that he would be hosting  a weekend