# Página 343  
W alt, prompting  one department head to ask W alt to give his staf f a pep
talk. W alt responded by of fering to throw them a dinner as a way both of
asserting his authority and of le ssening tensions, since a dinner “might put
them in a more receptive mood and make the evening more beneficial to
them.” It wasn’ t the only time W alt had to boost flagging spiri ts. Many of
the anim ators were now despairing of ever completing the project
satisfactorily , an d W alt complained that once scenes were finished and
ready for cleanup, the animator s seemed to lose the initiative in assuring
that everything was ready for the camera. “This picture is a tremendous
thing,” Adelquist told the assistant directors, delivering instructions from
W alt. “Y ou think you will neve r be finished. There seems to be twice as
much work on your desk at night when you leave, but if you will just keep
plugging and checking I am sure you will find that things will work out all
right.”
Once again, needing more in-be tweeners to rush the animation through,
the s tudio was c alling for trainees, taking out ads in magazines o r recruiting
at art schools—G eor ge Drake went to Chouinard himself to enlist artists—
and running the prospects thro ugh an expedited program, all the while
reinforcing how  important their mission was in getting out Snow White.  But
with all the emphasis on speed, there was always the contradicto ry message
of quality . At one class that June, Bill T ytla, indoctrinating the students in
the D isney method, told them, “The work now being planned and the work
they wil l continue to do here will call for men who can draw to beat hell,
not j ust in the conventional sens e, but men who have absolute control over
what the y are trying to do. The m en who are surviving realize th is.” And he
continued, “T od ay we are really on the ver ge of something that is new . It
will take a lot of real drawing, not clever , slick, superficial f ine-looking
stuf f but real solid, fine drawing to achieve these results.”
As t he summer approached and  the deadline loomed, Hand too k drastic
action. F or over a year the animators had been viewing live-a ction films,
not only of the dwarfs but of the witch, who was played variously by a
stage actor named Nestor Pavia and by the man who would voice the Magic
Mirror , M oroni O lsen, dressed in drag, and of Snow White, who was played
by Marj orie Bel cher , the teenage daughter of a local dance instructor . (She