# Página 448  
added to the bu dgets of Pinocchio, Bam bi, and Fantasia.  “ Dumb o is an
obvious straight  cartoon,” W alt proclaimed. “I’ll deliberately make it that
way . It’ s the type to do that with. It’ s caricature all the way through.”
The object was to avoid the agonizing over the story that had pl agued the
other features and led to months and months of revisions and higher and
higher costs. “He let me know v ery emphatically that this picture had to be
made fo r $350,0 00,” said Ben S harpsteen, who was assigned to produce the
film, rea lizing th at W alt couldn’ t possibly hold him to that budget but that
W alt wa s serious this time abo ut things being done economically albeit
without producin g shoddy work. W alt had assigned the task of a dapting the
book to Joe Grant, who headed the model department, and Dick Huemer ,
and they  submitted a 102-page treatment that January . “The reason we
brought it in for a low price,” J oe Grant would say , “was that it was done
quickly and with a minimum amount of mistakes. The story was clear and
air -tight to everyone involved in  the project. W e didn’ t do a lot of stuf f over
due to the story -point goofs. There were no sequences starte d and then
shelved, like in Pinocchio.  W alt was sure of what he w anted and this
confidence was shared by the e ntire crew . Dumbo,  from the very opening
drawing, went straight through to the finish with very few things changed or
altered.” W ard Kimball rememb ered being waylaid by W alt in the parking
lot one day an d being told he  was going to start on a circus picture,
animating a scene in which crow s sing a song about seeing an e lephant fly .
W alt the n recited  the entire story in five minutes. “And listening to him tell
that story ,” Kimball said, clearly recognizing that W alt had told the story in
what for him was record time, “I could tell that the picture w as going to
work. Because everything sounded right. It had a great plot.”
And there was a nother reason they were able to make Dumbo  so quickly:
W alt for  the first time had rem oved the burden of expectation for perfect
animation, meaning that the animators were not to agonize any more than
the story crew had. In fact, he assigned many of the newcomers to the
picture. “I was one of the ‘poor boys,’” animator Bill Peet recalled. “They
put all the rich boys, the top animators making the big salaries, working on
Bambi.  They wanted to make it a gem.” This wasn’ t entirely true. Bill T ytla,
who was certainly one of the top  animators and who had done the devil for