# Página 350  
For Snow White,  however , the dissenters were few . Diane Disney , who
wasn’ t quite four years old at the time, watched the film at a screening on
the s oundstage while peeking through her fingers and began to  bawl when
the Queen turned into the crone. The child was promptly escorted from the
room. “Obvious ly , my reaction didn’ t deter my father from making the
movie he envisioned,” she wou ld later say . Nearly everyone e lse seemed
elated by what they saw—even cautious Roy . “I am so glad you are so
enthusiastic about the way Snow White looks,” Kay Kamen, the head of the
studio’ s merchandising arm, wrote him. “I am just thrilled—it’ s really big
time stuf f.”
When W alt screened one thous and feet of the film for Joe Rosenber g,
Depinet, and several other RKO executives on that Saturday afternoon,
September 14, they seemed e qually enthusiastic. Depinet congratulated
W alt on the picture and on his courage in making it and said it w ould make
“plenty of money ,” then fired of f a telegram to RKO chairman M. H.
A ylesworth ravi ng about the film. “Ned says your investment will be
returned many times over ,” A ylesworth wrote W alt. In fact, according to
Gunther Lessing, who also attended the screening, the only one who didn’ t
seem esp ecially ef fusive was Rosenber g. He followed Lessing to his of fice,
declared himself “satisfied” with the film, and then met with W alt to warn
him not to spend any money on Bambi  until Snow White  was completed. He
also expressed his own concern that the film wouldn’ t be finished by
Christmas. If he thought it would make a “hatful of money ,” he didn’ t
appear to have told Lessing or W alt, despite W alt’ s recollection.
The fact  that money was just i nstrumental for W alt, a way for him to
make his films, explains why he  was so often at loggerheads with Roy , who
was char ged with providing that money . “He keeps on hollering that I am
spending too much money on S now White,” W alt complained to his staf f
one day . “I can ’ t be strapped down by a limited budget.” At any other
studio, where the moneymen t ypically held the upper hand, W alt would
have be en curbe d long before. It was only because he owned the studio
himself and because it was his brother who held the key to the treasury that
he hadn ’ t been reined in and w as allowed to spend. Among o ther things,
W alt co ntinued to insist that t he staf f be well compensated, despite the