# Página 13  
imagination view s as embracing values that are the antithesis o f those that
the body of his work supposedly communicated to children.”
But if one source of Disney’ s magic was his ability to mediate between
past and future, tradition and iconoclasm, the rural and the urban, the
individual and the community , even between conservatism and liberalism,
the most  powerf ul source of his appeal as well as his greatest legacy may be
that W al t Disney , more than any  other American artist, defined the terms of
wish fulfillmen t and demonstrated on a grand scale to his fellow
Americans, and ultimately to the entire world, how one could be
empowered by fantasy—how one could learn, in ef fect, to live w ithin one’ s
own illusions and even to transform the world into those illusions. “When
Y ou W is h Upon a Star ,” the song Disney borrowed from Pinocchio  for his
television theme, was his anthem and guiding principle. The key to his
success was, as the journalist Adela Rogers St. John put it, tha t he “makes
dreams come true,” or at least gave the impression he did, and that he had
“remolded a world not only ne arer to his heart’ s desire, but to yours and
mine.” In numerous ways Disney struck what may be the very fundament of
entertainment: the promise of a perfect world that conforms to our wishes.
He achie ved thi s in part by managing, almost purely by instin ct, to tap
into archetypes  that resonated with people of various ages, eras, and
cultures. One of his greatest gifts was in finding the elemental and the
essential of virtually every for m in which he worked—its ge netic code.
Whether it was his fairy tales o r his boy’ s adventures or his castle or Main
Street or the Mark T wain  R iverboat in D isneyland, each  seemed to have
been refined into the  fairy tale, the  boy’ s adventure, the  castle or Main
Street o r riverb oat of our mind ’ s eye. In an idealized world where wish
fulfillment prevailed, Disney had consistently concretized the ideal and
provided the pleasure of things made simple and pure the way one imagined
they should be, or at least the  way one imagined they should be from
childhood. He had Platonic templates in his head.
Others, virtually everyone in entertainment, attempt to tap this same
reserve, but Disney understood w ish fulfillment from the inside, which may
be why his own longings connected so powerfully to his audience’ s. During