# Página 803  
theme park as a place where employees of the park might live . For those
who said  Disney had no interest  in addressing contemporary problems, only
an i nterest in i gnoring them, this was also his response to social ills,
especially urban  unrest. “W alt w as intrigued with solving the problem of a
central c ommercial area and a r esidential area co-existing and making the
whole th ing wo rk for the moving of people and traf fic in and out,” said
WED Imaginee r Marvin Davis. W alt knew he couldn’ t solve all the
problems himse lf no matter how extensive his planning, and he knew that
he could n’ t solve them all immediately . What he foresaw inst ead was an
experimental co mmunity , one in which, Davis said, the “people living there
could be a co nstant source of testing out materials and  ideas and
philosophies.” He called it an Experimental Prototype Community of
T omorrow , or EPCOT , and as Marvin Davis said, “It was the real wienie” of
Disney W orld.
Still, if it was an experiment, it was also to be a real community—a
“living, breathin g community ,”  as W alt put it—with 20,000 residents by
1980, th ough at  other times W a lt pegged the population at 60, 000 or even
100,000. “It will worry abou t pre-school education,” he said, “home
environment, employment.” It would have a teen center in an ef fort to
prevent delinque ncy , and a near by facility for senior citizens. It would have
recreational zones and areas for houses of worship. As for government,
though W alt would never have surrendered his ultimate authority , he
contemplated a bifurcated syste m in which the company contro lled all the
planning and building while other issues were determined by a democratic
process. At another time he suggested that residents be rotated on
“sabbaticals” so that no one wo uld have permanent voting rights.* Indeed,
so expansive and futuristic was his vision that in some ways it owed as
much to  his animations as to h is park. “W alt expected things that people
have been hoping for , twenty-five and thirty years in the future,” Joe Fowler
said. “He expected a house that would be completely self-suf fici ent, its own
power plant, its own electric ity , no garbage or trash co llection, all
automatically taken care of with pipes that belong to the place…. He
expected transportation in all of its modern forms, without automobiles in
the stree ts. He expected educational facilities that are twenty years ahead.”