# Página 154  
he knew they had been vindicated. “It was terrible, but it was wonderful!”
W alt would say , criticizing the quality of the cartoon but appreciating the
significance of the showing. “A nd it was something new!” wh ich was, of
course, the main point for the struggling studio. The staf f were so jubilant
that they  reassem bled at the studio at six in the morning, just a few hours
after they had left, to finish the cartoon.
It w ould take another four week s, during which W alt and Roy refinanced
their Hy perion mortgage to raise money . On July 14 W alt r equisitioned
sheet music, and by month’ s end they held a second preview like the first,
only this time o f the entire ca rtoon. In the meantime W alt h ad become
practically mess ianic about sound. He had his business card s reprinted.
“Sound cartoons,” they now read. As for Steamboat W illie,  the eminent
animation histo rian John Canemaker called it the “ Jazz Singer  of
animation” for the ef fect it wou ld have. After the loss of Oswald and most
of his staf f, W alt had, in a few short months, reinvented his studio and, he
thought, the cartoon itself. Now all he had to do was find a way to get the
sound and music on the film itself so that he could get a distributor to
release the cartoons before his money was exhausted.
II
The race began. Even as he was making W illie,  W a lt was desperately
soliciting distributors for his two silent Mickey cartoons, just as he had back
in the days of L augh-O-Gram fo r his fairy tales and just as he had when he
arrived in Los Angeles with Alice’ s W onderland.  But he was having no
success. The problem in landing  a new distributor , he wrote one prospective
company , was, oddly enough, the sound that he himself was so vigorously
pursuing. “They are all afraid to tie up with silent product until they find out
how far  the sound idea is goin g,” he complained, but they w ere equally
wary ab out sound. He felt that sound was a “wonderful thing” so long as it
was use d judiciously , which it frequently was not, but he concluded that
“things will shortly be back t o normal, and they [distributors] will be
considering the quality in a sile nt product instead of going craz y over a lot
of useless and irritating noises.” Of course W alt was hedging out of self-