# Página 482  
Of c ourse the employees didn’ t meekly get to work as W alt instructed.
But it was still unclear how much stomach he had for a union  battle and
how willing he was to let his beloved studio be torn asunder . I n mid-April
he seemed ready to concede and recognize the SCG, but O’Rourke, the
“impartial” chairman, wrote hi m calling such a gesture a “Munich,” in
reference to the 1938 agreement between England and Nazi Germany
meant to  appeas e the latter , sayin g it amounted to an “eventual alliance with
the ‘ Soviet,’” and declaring his intention to quit if W alt did so. In any case
W alt soo n quashed the rumors and cheerily ur ged his employe es to for get
the tensions and just “get out th e much-needed production whic h, after all,
is the most vital thing now or any other time.”
Meanwhile, even as the NLRB was conducting hearings on the SCG
char ge that the federation wa s a company union, the fede ration was
negotiating with the studio over recognition and a new contra ct and even
held a vote for new of ficers. In early May the NLRB ruled against the
federation—the examiner said responsibility for the “union” must be “laid
at th e door of Gunther Lessing” —and ordered it to disband. Rel uctantly the
studio, w ith a new labor adviser  named W alter Spreckels, began negotiating
with the SCG, which now demanded immediate recognition, and after the
months of jockeying, W alt, writ ing to Eleanor Roosevelt—who had visited
the studio that same week and expressed concerns about the labor situation
there—dismissed all the strife as nothing more than a jurisdictional dispute.
“In our entire history we have n ever had the least bit of labor trouble,” he
told the First Lady .
But even after the demise of the company union, the so-called
jurisdictional dispute just woul dn’ t end. Though the studio had signed a
consent decree agreeing not to discourage union or ganizing, W alt, clearly
unwilling to cede any authority , refused to give the SCG recognition and
insisted on a sec ret ballot, not a cross-check of payroll lists, to determine if
it re presented the majority of st udio employees. As that stalemate dragged
on, the federatio n held a meeti ng at the Hotel Knickerbocker at which it
of ficially dissolv ed as ordered, o nly to reappear that same weekend under a
new name, the A merican Society of Screen Cartoonists, with essentially the
same of f icers as  the federation a nd even the same mailing addre ss. Like the