# Página 129  
pictures at intervals any gr eater  than three weeks, he could ship them as
frequently as he liked and thre atened to seek another distributor if Mintz
failed to remit the money due. The threat, almost certainly a bluf f, prompted
Mintz to send a long and angry letter that October decry ing W alt’ s
ingratitude (“ha d any of the first seven pictures that you made, [ sic ] been
given to any oth er Distributor in the whole world…they would have thrown
them out bodily”), his ineptitude  (“the only reason you are making pictures
today is because we sent our Geor ge W inkler out and, at our expense,
taught you what it was necessary to know to produce the kind of pictures
you are now making”), and his greed (“we have not made one s ingle dollar
on any picture that we have ever gotten from you”).
T echnically , W a lt was right. He  could deliver when he pleased.  But as a
twenty-three-year -old animation tyro, he did not have the clout to take on
his distributor , and in any case t he dispute was complicated by the fact that
even as he and Mintz were trad ing char ges, Mintz was also n egotiating a
deal wit h a big n ational distributor , the Film Booking Of fice, to  pick up his
entire product— the Krazy Kats, which he was now producing instead of
Felix, and the Alices. Mintz had been distributing the films on what was
called a “states’  rights” basis, meaning that he sold them state by state to
local theater circuits, but independent distribution was rapidly giving way to
lar ger or ganizations selling to lar ger territories. Obviously knowing that
W alt was ambitious and hoping that he would regard national distribution as
a ne w opportunity to advance his career , Mintz suggested th ey put their
dif ferences aside and agree on a  new contract on the same terms as the old
contract—$1,500 per film, with $900 payable on delivery of the negative
and $60 0 within ninety days aft er that, with a fifty-fifty split of all receipts
above $ 3,000—and that W alt come to New Y ork as soon as possible to
conclude the deal. “I intend to make your product the leading subject of its
kind in the entire world,” Mintz wrote in obvious conciliation, echoing his
wife’ s early promises.
As always, W alt needed money  to maintain his operation, an d he was
barely breaking even despite wh at he believed was the growing  popularity
of th e series. But once again money was not his only or perhaps even
greatest conside ration. W alt harbored two impulses that often warred: the