# Página 331  
had transcribed in conversations with W alt, began drawing poses for each of
the dwa rfs that he thought wo uld express their core selves and subtly
distinguish them  from one another based lar gely on the way they carried
their we ight. Doc: “He is a pompous guy . Even though he is bi g, he has to
maintain a shape.” Happy: “Hap py is fatter and lets his weight slip and fall
down, w hile Do c is holding his  weight up.” Grumpy: “Grumpy is a chesty
little gu y with his chest out and a pert fanny—bow-legged. H e is a very
aggressive type. ” Bashful: “Bashful, as W alt likes him, has short legs and is
plump. He is the  one that always carries his head down and look s out of the
corner of his eyes with chin on his chest.” Sleepy: “Sleepy has a long body ,
leaning forward almost as thoug h he was of f balance…. His head seemed to
be tilted  up when looking, but when in a kind of slump positio n, his head
would f all down .” Sneezy: “Sneezy’ s head should be drawn i n sort of an
oblong shape with more or less pretty good-sized nose stuck up in the air
with a long upper lip.” And Do pey: “His sleeves hang down c overing his
hands…. He has a kid personalit y with small nose and eyes fairly lar ge with
a little outward slant to make them elfish.”
However dif fic ult the other dwarfs were, Dopey was t he most
challenging because, as W alt put it, he was the one “we are depending upon
to carry most of the belly laughs .” There were even some qualms about the
name its elf. Som e objected to it s being too slangy and modern  or possibly
suggesting a “hop-head,” as W alt put it, though W alt deflected those
criticisms by saying that Shakespeare had used the word and that he
couldn’ t take seriously the connotations of drug use because “[t]hat’ s not
the way  my mind works.” A s for delineating the character , everyone
continued to search for a peg. “Dopey has some Harpo [Marx] in him,”
Perce Pe arce dec lared at one me eting, picking up on what W alt himself had
said back in April, “and W alt says he is made up of Harry Lang don, a little
bit o f Bu ster Ke aton, and a littl e trace of Chaplin in the fellow . What I am
getting t o is that Dopey has a li ttle bit of everything in him.” The problem
with this characterization was that there was only a thin line between being
a little bit of everything and being nothing at all.
“The bo ys couldn’ t seem to get  him at all,” W alt would say ye ars later .
“They tr ied to make him too mu ch of an imbecile, which was not what we