# Página 245  
“Everybody is of the opinion that it will create quite a sensatio n,” Geor ge
Morris wrote Roy after a studio screening, correctly as it turned out.
Grauman called  it a “creation of genius that marks a new m ilestone in
cinematic development.” W alt later claimed that the showing at Grauman’ s
brought “an avalanche of order s and bookings.” Flowers and T r ees  would
also win the Academy A ward for animated short subject.
Now W alt was hooked, just as he had been hooked on sound wi th W illie.
Black-and-white cartoons suddenly seemed antiquated and stylized, more
drawing than life. “A black and white print looked as dra b alongside
Flowers and T r ees  as a gray day alongside a rainbow ,” he later wrote. “W e
could do other things with color ! W e could do many things with color that
no other medium could do.” The wheels, however , turned slow ly . Nearly a
year late r W alt was still lobbying within the company to convert the entire
program to color , whether UA would change the contract to compensate or
not, whether the studio would ha ve to stand the entire expense or not. “W alt
is very hot on co lor ,” Gunther Lessing wrote Roy , who was in N ew Y ork at
the t ime. “He wa nts it.” What L essing couldn’ t convey was how badly W alt
wanted it. He w as so intent that even without the prospect of an y additional
compensation f rom UA he be gan negotiating with T echnic olor for an
exclusive right to use their process; he hoped to seal a deal when
T echnicolor hea d Herbert Kalmus met with his board of di rectors and
feared that if h e didn’ t close a deal soon, some rival anima tion studio
would. Roy thought W alt was n eedlessly nervous, since everyo ne knew the
Disneys weren’ t getting any lar ger advances for color cartoons than for
black-and-white, but Roy , bowing once again to W alt’ s wishes, nevertheless
met with Kalmus to discuss terms.
Roy wa s right that no other  studio seemed to be beating down
T echnicolor ’ s do or and that T ec hnicolor was even more eager than W alt to
conclude an agreement, since Disney’ s cartoons were a way for them to
showcase their process. In fac t, T echnicolor of fered to loan the studio
money t o help of fset the additional costs—complete conversi on to color
would have required an extra $1 95,000—and at one point proposed to foot
the entire bill for the conversion in exchange for a 50 percent interest in the
studio, which W alt politely declined. (Lessing was less polite.) Instead,