# Página 473  
parroting W alt’ s . As one employee put it, “Everybody with any sense
waited on W alt.”
Along w ith the distance and the autocracy , the staf f now began to voice
another raw grievance: W alt never gave them credit. “No one person can
take credit for the success of a motion picture,” he had once said. “It’ s
strictly a  team ef fort.” Neverthe less W alt had always made certain that his
name wa s the most prominent, even if he claimed that this was essentially a
marketing decis ion. It was, acco rding to Dave Hand, an edict at the studio:
“don’ t mention anybody but that one person, W alt.” On the shorts the
storymen and animators seldom cared. But the features, on whi ch many of
them ha d labore d for years, wer e a dif ferent matter . Not getting  credit hurt
and gen erated d eep hostility . “Being left of f the credits made me realize I
was still just another sketch man , just one of the mob, and I was depressed
for week s afterward,” Bill Peet remarked when he attended a  preview of
Pinocchio  and  didn’ t see  his name on the screen. When one animat or
approached W al t with the idea of giving awards for the best anim ation, W alt
told him, “If there’ s going to be any awards made, I’m going to  get them.”
Indeed, it was W alt who often expressed resentment at his animators for
what he  saw as their haughtines s and self-regard, calling them “touch-me-
nots” and “holy cows.” In return, where they had once celebrated W alt for
orchestrating the team, one of them would later gripe, “He’ s a genius at
using someone else’ s genius.”
And the  rift wasn’ t only between W alt and the staf f but among members
of th e st af f them selves now that W alt wasn’ t there to deflect th e discontent
and now that the sense of mission was being compromised by economic
woes. In -betweeners and cleanu p men, most of whom made less than $20 a
week, be gan to resent the animators, who made anywhere from $75 a week
(Don Lusk and John Lounsbery) to $300 a week (Norm Fe r guson and
Freddie Moore). Since many of these underpaid employees worked on a
trial basi s for months and even then didn’ t advance up the studio ranks, they
became, in Ben Sharpsteen’ s w ord, “soreheads,” and since W alt seldom
fired the se underlings, their resentments festered. But even among the key
animators there was dissension. W est Coast animators resented the artists
W alt had  hired from the East, o ften at higher salaries, especially since the