# Página 164  
Colony they were stumbling ove r each other .” The reviewer for  Exhibitor ’ s
Herald  s aid  it “knocked me out of my seat.” And even The New  Y ork T imes
took note, calling W illie  “ an ingenious p iece of work w ith a good deal of
fun. It growls, whines, squeaks and makes various other sounds that add to
its mirthful quality .”
Steamboat W illie  seemed a slight film for such enthusiasm, much less for
a c inema tic milestone, which is what it would become. Scarcely  six minutes
in length, it had little narrative—essentially Mickey , in the throes of musical
passion, carouses on a steamboat and turns everything he sees into an
instrument: a goat into a hurdy-gurdy , a trash can into a drum, a set of pans
into chi mes, and a cow’ s teeth  into a xylophone. W ith a bit of casual
sadism, he also yanks a cat’ s ta il to elicit yowls, uses a hapless goose as a
trombone, and presses the teats  of a sow to turn her into a kind of piano
bleating notes. The only plot el ements are a hulking cat of a captain who
terrorizes Mickey—the intrusion of reality—and whose severity he escapes
through his music, and Minnie Mouse, who joins his recital w hen Mickey
swings h er aboard with a loadin g hook. But what made it dif ferent from its
animation forebears and comp etitors was the extent to which W alt had
imagined it fully as a sound cartoon in which the music and ef fects were
inextricable from the action—truly a musical cartoon rather than a cartoon
with m usic. As W ilfred Jackson later analyzed the Disney musical
technique, “I do not believe there was much thought given to t he music as
one thing and th e animation as another . I believe we conceived of them as
elements which we were trying  to fuse into a whole new thing that would
be m ore than s imply movement plus sound.” Even Mickey’ s walk was
conceptualized musically , according to two veteran Disney animators. It
had a bounce to it from the beat.
Just as The Jazz Singer  had sent shock waves through the film industry a
year earlier , rival animation studios immediately recognized that W illie  had
wrought a revolution in their art. “It became the rage,” wrote on e producer .
“Everybody was talking about it and raving about the funny  action this
mouse c haracter did.” Other studios raced to catch up, but Disney had both
a head start now and his special synchronizing system, and it would be a
year bef ore competitors were making musical cartoons of their own with