# Página 423  
would b e something entirely dif ferent from anything we have done. It
would be grotesque and exaggerated.”
Now W a lt was soaring. If The Concert Featur e  provided a new direction
from his previous work, The Rite  of Spring  p rovide d a new direction from
anything else in The Concert Featur e.  When some who had attended the
studio c oncert griped that the piece was too long and downbeat, W alt
dismissed their complaints—“Th e happy ending again!”—and rhapsodized,
“I fe el there is an awful lot that  we have wanted to do for a long time and
have ne ver had  the opportunity or excuse, but when you take pieces of
music like this, you really have  reason to do what we want to  do.” What
W alt wanted to do was trace the history of the earth beginni ng with the
creation and ending with man tri umphing over his environment by using his
intellect—not only animation as an act of creation but an imation as
Creation itself. It should look, he told one animator , “as though the studio
had sent an expedition back to the earth 6 million years ago,” and at Joe
Grant’ s suggestion, he decided to ask the esteemed science fictio n writer H.
G. W ells to vouch for the film’ s scientific accuracy . Though W alt later gave
up the idea of man’ s evolution and triumph—one associate said he didn’ t
want to antagonize Christian fundamentalists—he never surrendered the
basic ide a of a c osmic cataclysm  that would test the bounds of animation.
“That’ s what I s ee in the last half,” he said. “Continual volcanoes—the sea
was lashed into a fury . Get th e volcanoes and the lava and the sea and
everything—the animals trying to escape. End that with the big blowup
somewhere. Som ething blows up big to finish the fourth side [of  the record]
there.” I n ef fect , W alt was play ing the sorcerer ’ s apprentice, orchestrating
the forces of nature.
Of cou rse, thi s was W alt’ s personal interpretation of the music.
Stravinsky had written The Rite  of Spring  not as a musical rendition of
creation or evolution but as a celebration of American Indian rituals, and
some on  W alt’ s  own staf f felt that reimagining the score this way did an
injustice to the music, though W alt tried to justify himself by saying that
Stravinsky had once admitted he was striking primitive themes. Others
objected that no one would take the dinosaurs seriously and that the
segment would be derided. W a lt pondered this char ge and for  a while he