# Página 731  
in a group of tr ainees for the first time since the 1930s. Anoth er problem
was that  the process of working within Earle’ s style was slow a nd onerous
—so slow that the cleanup staf f was moving half as quickly as it had on
Lady an d the T ramp.  B y January 195 7, after over fiv e years of work, 2,500
feet had been animated with 3,775 feet yet to go.
This work had proceeded while  W alt was focusing on Disney land, and
when he  finally turned his attent ion to Sleeping Beauty ,  he was not pleased.
The bud get of the film had soare d to the point, Harry T ytle said, where W alt
was questioning whether the studio could af ford to do any more features. T o
keep costs down, one animator recalled, a quota system was instituted.
“[Y]ou had to do eight girls a day , thirty-two medium sized birds a day ,
twenty-two squi rrels a day ,” he said. “That’ s how they got through it.” But
W alt’ s interest in making this the  great animation was already flagging.
After a screeni ng of finished footage in August 1957, T ytl e noted “a
noticeable, marked dif ference” in W alt from the old days. “He seems to be
tired, ha s so much on his mind; didn’ t give this the treatment he would have
in years past, where he’d go in for a couple of days and fine tooth comb the
whole picture.”  His comments were general rather than specific. Dick
Huemer agreed that W alt could n’ t seem to get engaged with the film and
that he blamed the animators for concentrating on the vis uals to the
detriment of the story , W alt’ s traditional interest, apparently not realizing
that this had been his injuncti on to them. Bill Peet compared him to a
“ringmaster directing a twenty ring circus”: “W alt the bear was the one who
came to our story conferences, and he usually came with a scowl and left
with a growl.”
For thei r part, the animators worked as devoutly as they had w orked on
all the great animations. One animator said that they were so cautious in
drawing Aurora,  the sleeping be auty , that the staf f was cleaning up only one
drawing a day , w hich translated  into one second of screen time per month.
“They measured the width of the line, the density of the line, the taper of
the line, ” he said. “’Cause we t hought we were making the Lo rd’ s Prayer
for sure .” Frank  Thomas worked so hard and under such pressure that he
developed a red blotch on his face and had to visit the doctor each week to
have it attended to. W ilfred Ja ckson, the supervising director , suf fered a