# Página 409  
studio had once seemed to orb it, now infuriated him. “[I]t’ s a continual
fight aro und this  place to get away from slapping somebody on the fanny or
having somebod y swallow something,” he complained to his staf f. “It’ s
going to  take time to get ourselves up to the point where we can really get
some hu mor in our stuf f, rather than just belly laughs; and get beauty in it,
rather than just a flashy postcar d.” Another time, speaking of The Concert
Featur e,  he exho rted, “[ W]e’re not making an ordinary cartoon and I feel
that we’ ve got the wrong slant on this stuf f,” then bluntly added what would
have been heresy even a few years earlier: “I don’ t believe in this gag
stuf f.”
He was aspiring  to something m uch higher than gags—much higher even
than the sentimental fantasy of Snow White  and Pinocchio  or the realism of
Bambi.  I n exten ding hi s hand to W alt, Stokowski, who carefully cultiv ated
the romantic image of a long-haired artiste for popular consumption, was
trying to for ge a union between the classical and the mass as a way of
popularizing not only classical music but also, and not incidentally , himself.
W alt was working for the same  union, only from the other side. This time
he w as explicitly bidding to join forces with high art and pry the cartoon
from its origins in popular culture, where he felt it was doomed to be crude
and juvenile. W alt would have never called himself an artist— he was too
skeptical of culture and too plainspoken for that—but he did want to make
art, i f on ly becau se that was the  natural evolution for him, and The Concert
Featur e  was, he thought, certifiably art. “[T]hey’re worried about the high-
brow an gle,” W a lt groused at a story meeting after having lunch  with RKO
counsel Neil Spitz. “The only thing I’m worried about is that it might be a
little too low-brow…. If you put Dopey in it they would say swell.”
Like Stokowski , W alt seemed to take pride in serving as the conduit
between the classical composers and his unaf fected American audience.
Classical music, he thought, had been made to seem rarefied and
inaccessible. In The Concert Featur e  h e and Stokow ski would demystify
the music by visualizing it. “I wouldn’ t worry a damn bit about the stif f
shirts that are supposed to be the ones that this music is created for ,” W alt
told his storymen at one session, recalling a recent visit to the opera.
“There’ s a great mass of people who would appreciate this music if they