# Página 206  
his w ork,” Geor ge Morris told a  reporter profiling W alt, “as every moment
of his time is given over to it.”
But the obsessiv eness took a far greater toll on Lillian than just having to
wait for  her husband or listen to his stories. She was lonely .  T o a T ime
reporter , she called herself a “mouse widow” and joked that she found her
husband’ s conversation “fascinating” because “it is entirely given to
Mickey Mouse. ” There was little time for anything else. T he Disneys
socialized only occasionally , usu ally at Roy’ s house for a Sunday barbecue
and a game of croquet, and they had few close friends. His be st pal, W alt
said, was Lillian, with his dog, Sunnee, “running a close second.” Most of
his free time he spent with Lill ian, her mother , and Sunnee, d riving from
theater to theater to watch carto ons—“He knew what time they would be
playing,” Lillian  said—while his entourage waited in the car . When he
wasn’ t on cartoon patrol, he and Lillian would be out for a ride and
invariably W alt would say that he remembered something he w anted to do
at the studio. “There wasn’ t a night we didn’ t end up at the studio,” Lillian
recalled. So she would curl up  on the davenport in his of fice and sleep
while W alt work ed, waking up at intervals to ask how late it was, to which,
regardless of the time, W alt would answer , “Oh, it’ s not late.” W alt admitted
years later that he would turn b ack his of fice clock while Lillian slept so
that she never knew how late he had worked. Even in bed, Lill ian said, he
would u sually to ss and turn, thin king of studio problems, then ri se early and
declare, “I think I’ve got it licked.”
Already stressed by W alt’ s obsession and the financial shortfall, the
couple suf fered  another , more personal tragedy that summer . A child
himself, W alt had always hoped  for children of his own. “I want to have ten
kids,” he  once told his sister Rut h, “and let them do whatever they want,” in
obvious compensation for the  tribulations he endured during his own
childhood. Despite her maternal feelings for Sunnee, Lillian, the youngest
of te n, w as mor e guarded about having children, saying that she had been
discouraged at seeing how hard  her mother and sisters had had to work.
While W alt and Lillian pondered parenting, Roy and Edna had been
attempting to have a child—even, by one account, agreeing to have
intercourse in their doctor ’ s of fice so he could monitor them. Finally , on