# Página 54  
them. He also claimed that there was “finagling” and that he was given
rotten fruit in his hamper , but Roy chalked the losses up to W alt’ s own
carelessness. “H e’d go up and down the train, leave his locker u nlocked and
when he ’d come  back find…a lot of empty Coke bottles and some of the
candy gone.” W alt admitted he  ate up his profits. After two months he
resigned.
By t hat time Ro y was gone. W ith America having entered W orld W ar I
that spring, he had joined th e navy just fourteen days after W alt’ s
graduation. By summer ’ s end W alt was gone too, reunited with  his parents
in Chicago. He would always sa y that even though he was a C hicagoan by
birth, he  was a Missourian by temperament and usually poi nted to his
childhood in Marceline as the foundation of his life, but his six years in
Kansas City were no less formative. If Marceline had been where W alt
Disney for ged his fantasy , Kansas City was where he for ged his personal
mythology—what one Disney scholar would call the “opening chapters of
an A merican success story whe re good triumphed over evil a nd progress
overcame adversity .” Though Ruth in particular would contradict her
brother ’ s somber vision of the D isney family , and though Roy h imself, who
confirmed W alt’ s depiction of their father ’ s distance and temper , would
nevertheless call the Disney family’ s home life “wonderful” and dismiss
contentions that W alt was abused or neglected, W alt, a blatant self-
dramatist, would fasten on the deprivations of his youth in Kansas City—on
the hard ships of  the paper route, on the obduracy of his father , on the need
to find release on the stage  or the drawing pad. T rue or not, he
conceptualized h is early life in Dickensian terms, with the kindn esses of the
Pfeif fers or Daisy Beck or Bert Hudson relieving the gloom. For W alt
Disney , Marceli ne had to be recaptured, but Kansas City , the grit against
which h is life would rub, had to be remembered to show from w hat he had
risen. In Kansas City , W alt Disney not only began to channel his escape; he
began to  create the idea of W a lt Disney—the idea of someone who beat
poverty , hardship, and neglect.
IV