# Página 125  
than ef fervescen t. Her paternal grandfather , James L. Bounds, was one of
the first settlers in the Northwest T erritory that became Oregon and then had
made a small fortune in the California gold rush before retiring to Idaho.
James’ s son and Lillian’ s father , W illard Bounds, was variously an Indian
scout, a blacksm ith, and the Un ited States deputy marshal who drove the
“hack” wagon in 1895 from  Lewiston, Idaho, to Spalding carrying
$626,000 in twenty-dollar gold pieces that the government paid the Nez
Percé Indians to acquire their lands. Lillian, who was born three years later ,
grew up  among the Indians in th e outpost of Lapwai, which was  settled in a
narrow v alley in  Nez Percé cou ntry in the northern handle of Idaho, where
the Indian Agency and the Ind ian school were both located a nd through
which ra nchers drove their cattle over the fenceless fields to the stockyards
at North Lapwai. It was isola ted country—though Lewiston was only
twelve m iles away , it was inaccessible except by ferry across the Clearwater
River—and it made for rugged individuals. If the Disney forebears had
looked like hardscrabble farme rs, lean and ascetic, the Boundses looked
redoubtable—W illard broad and bulky with an oversize mustac he, and his
wife, Jea nette, o r Nettie, as she was called, short and stout at more than two
hundred pounds. These were solid people.
But like the Disneys, they were no match finally for their environment.
W illard and Nettie had ten children, of whom Lillian was the yo ungest, and
the family struggled constantly . Whatever wealth the Boundses had
acquired from the gold rush wa s long gone. Moreover , for years W illard,
who had become the government blacksmith, was debilitated by intestinal
problems that would eventually lead to his death in 1916. “ They never
knew if there w as going to b e enough to eat,” Lillian’ s dau ghter said.
“Mother never even had shoes that fit properly .” After W illard’ s demise,
Lillian and her mother relocated to Lewiston, where Lillian attended
business school and where she was living when she decided to visit Los
Angeles.
When she met W alt Disney that January , there was no attraction, much
less romance. At most, even though she lived within walking distance of the
studio, W alt would drive her and a coworker home. Y et Lillian observed
that he always dropped of f the other girl first and then stopped near but