# Página 89  
of f at the station. “I never knew  W alt’ s emotions much,” Ruth said, “but he
suddenly couldn’ t keep his face straight. He turned and left. He was clearly
very upset. He knew he was going to be alone.”
For som eone as social as W al t Disney , someone who loved sodality ,
loneliness was a curse, and he would have done anything to a void it. He
moved out of th e Bellefontaine  house—it was sold when Elia s and Flora
moved—and bo unced around various boardinghouses that we re occupied
by other rootless young men li ke him. For a while he shared a furnished
attic in a rooming house with Cauger ’ s nephew Marion, who had come to
work for his uncle at the Film Ad Co., but that did not meet W alt’ s need for
companionship or fill the void l eft by his family’ s departure. In  May 1920,
even before Roy left, W alt had  joined the Order of DeMolay . DeMolay ,
named after the last of the Knig hts T emplar , was a fraternity for young men
that had  been founded in Kansas City the previous year by a twenty-eight-
year -old restaurateur and Mason grandee named Frank Land. (His char ges
called h im “Dad.”) W alt would describe joining DeMolay as “one of the
most important events of my youth, and one of the happiest, too,” and
would la ter writ e Land that DeM olay ingrained in him “belief in  a Supreme
Being, i n the fellowship of man , and in the sanctity of home.” All of this
may very well have been true. But he also found an outlet for his drawing
as th e art edito r of the DeMolay magazine, he undoubtedly enjoyed the
opera bouf fe uniforms that the D eMolay members wore, and, above all, he
received camaraderie.
He seize d another source of security after his family’ s departur e as well:
the f amily of Ro y’ s girlfriend, Edna Francis. Roy had met Edna when her
brother , Mitch, a coworker of Roy’ s at the First National Bank—Mitch was
the one who too k Roy home af ter his botched tonsil operation—suggested
he take her to a  dance. Edna, a plain, unprepossessing woman, was four
years older than Roy (she was probably twenty-nine when the y met) and
something of a beaten soul. Her father , a railroad worker , was a wanderer
who had moved his family of six children from Pittsbur gh to Kansas to
Kansas City before finally aband oning them. Her mother was al most totally
deaf. Fo r Roy , who seemed to enjoy the role of guardian and bulwark and
who was just as  modest and unaf fected as she was, Edna Francis was the