# Página 461  
W alt himself still seemed ebu llient. Before its release he h ad called
Fantasia  the “big  experie nce” of his life.  After its release he claimed it was
the a pex of animation and doubted that it could ever be duplicat ed since the
loss of the foreign markets would make any attempt to make a film as
costly and ambitious as Fantasia  “suicidal.” Y et as proud as he s aid he was
of th e fi lm, he was deeply hurt by the criticism and began to harbor doubts
about it himself. Roy would later say that Fantasia  was  a “disappointment”
to W alt. “[I]t was that he saw m ore in it—the possibilities—than he got out
of it,” Roy said, because W alt “didn’ t really have the artists.” According to
Joe Gra nt, for all W alt’ s outward expressions of confidence, even on the
way back from the New Y or k premiere he was depressed. “He said
something to the ef fect of ‘All that work and all that fanfare,’” Grant
recalled. “He realized that he had gone over the public’ s  head with
Fantasia,  and that he had also disappointed them, because the film was n’ t
what they expected from Disney .” Y ears later W alt himself would say ,
“Every time I’ve made a mista ke is when I went in a direct ion where I
didn’ t feel the thing actually . And I did try to be a little smarty pants.”
Perhaps the criticism that stung the most was that of Igor Stravin sky , who
may sim ply hav e been trying to distance himself from the film after so
many music critics found fault w ith it. W alt recalled Stravinsky visiting the
studio w ith the choreographer Geor ge Balanchine back in December 1939
when he showed them The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  and the storyboards for
The Rite of Spring.  It was,  by W alt’ s account, a pleasant if uneventful
meeting. Stravinsky would rem ember it dif ferently . He said that he had
received a request from the studio for permission to use Le Sacr e
“accompanied b y a gentle warning that if permission were w ithheld the
music w ould be  used anyway ,” since the piece had not been cop yrighted in
the Uni ted States. W alt proposed $5,000 for foreign rights, which,
Stravinsky claimed, was reduced  during negotiations. As he remembered it,
during his visit he was of fered a score, and when he said he had his own, he
was told  that the music had been changed. “It was indeed,”  Stravinsky
would write scornfully . The instrumentation was dif ferent, the order of the
pieces r earranged, the dif ficult passages eliminated. As for the visuals,
Stravinsky said, “I do not wish to criticize an unresisting imbecility .”