# Página 402  
a “little CRICKET , who is singing on the hea rth,” makes his first
appearance. This time, however , the Fairy appoints him as Pinocchio’ s
conscience. Now  the storymen h ad to rewrite the entire script to incorporate
the c ricket. As W alt later explain ed it, “W e said, ‘Here’ s a guy w e’ve got to
take all the way through this th ing,’ so we worked him back into all the
sections.”  
Perhaps the real problem with Pinocchio,  and with Bambi  for that matter ,
and the primary reason that W alt wasn’ t able to find solutions to the
dilemmas they posed as he had on Snow White,  was that he was
overextended, which was why he had to delegate authority to  Hand and
Sharpsteen. Not only was he revising the scripts of Bambi  and Pinocchio,
he w as sweatboxing scenes, d esigning the new studio, supervising the
shorts production, and launching yet another film, his most ambitious yet,
tentatively titled The Concert Featur e,  which, in W alt’ s original plan, was
to have been rele ased after Bambi  and Pinocchio.  I nd eed, in a single typical
day in February , W alt was discu ssing a scene in which Pinocch io learns to
pray , listening to recordings for  The Concert Featur e,  wat ching live a ction
that had been shot for Pinocchio,  a nd attending a story meeting on the
shorts. A dded to all these chores was W alt’ s rededication to  his family ,
though the family was always sacrificed when the studio called.
Even before Bambi  and Pinocchio  had been temporarily shelved, The
Concert Featur e  had  loomed lar ge in W alt’ s consciousness. In a way , it was
a fulfillm ent. Si nce The Skeleton Dance,  W alt had harbored the dream of
making Silly Symphonies in which, as he told an interviewer , “sheer
fantasy unfolds to a musical pattern” without being restricted by the
“illusion of reality”—in short, a bstract films. W ith his obligations on Snow
White,  h e hadn’ t had  the time to implement this idea until som etime
probably in the summer of 1937, when he was dining alone at Chasen’ s
restaurant in Los Angeles, spotted the leonine Polish-born symphony
conductor Leopo ld Stokowski, who was also dining alone, and invited him
to his table. W alt already knew Stokowski, one of the most recognizable