# Página 491  
Highland and request a meeting  at the Roosevelt Hotel. All of them piled
into a car and se t of f for the conclave, only realizing once they were on the
road that they w ere being taken not to the Roosevelt Hotel but rather to
Biof f ’ s ranch in the San Fernando V alley . (Hilberman, fearing what Biof f
might do in the privacy of his h ome, demanded that the driver stop the car
and then  jumped  out.) When the  rest arrived, Roy , Lessing, and  Bill Garity
were wa iting for  them along wi th Biof f, who announced that if they signed
with the IA TSE they could go b ack to work in the morning. Babbitt said he
was even of fered a fifty-dollar raise and time of f whenever he wanted it.
But like W alt’ s M arch speech, the meeting had exactly the opposite ef fect
to resolv ing the strike. The stri kers were incensed that W alt had involved
the racketeer Biof f and rejected the of fer , after which the studio announced
that it was breaking of f all nego tiations with SCG. “[H]e honestly tried to
settle it,” W alt would say of Biof f. But when Sorrell rebuf fed him, it
“proved to me t hat Sorrell is dirty , sneaky and as foul as the y come and
there is no doubt but he is a tool of the Communist group.” A week after the
Biof f fiasco the federal government of fered to step in, and Stanley White,
an of ficer from the Conciliation Service of the Department of Labor , flew
into Los Angeles to confer with  the parties and see if he could  mediate an
agreement. He recommended binding arbitration by a three-man panel,
during which the strikers would return to work. The SCG at a mass meeting
unanimously accepted the of fer . Lessing, however , rejected it, saying that
yet another reformed company union, the Animated Cartoon Associates,
really re presented the workers and fuming that the NLRB had  meddled in
the com pany’ s af fairs, even contacting its bankers to press for a settlement,
and that the NLRB’ s actions w arranted a congressional investigation, and
he once again accused the union of being Communist.
Then, su ddenly and unexpected ly , on July 23 Lessing reverse d himself
and wired the Conciliation Service accepting its mediation of fer . The
Disneys clearly had not softene d; they still vehemently believed that the
SCG wa s a T rojan horse to take  over the studio. But they now had another
force to reckon with, a force even more resolute than Sorrell. As Sorrell
later told it, Stanley White, the federal conciliator , had called him, hoping to
break the stalemate, and recomm ended they contact the Bank of America,