# Página 530  
much goodwill as entertainment, Saludos  w as neverthele ss as close to a
commercial feature as the studio was likely to produce now that Bambi  was
finished. It was also one of the few reasons for optimism. The critic Gilbert
Seldes, long W alt’ s champion, s aw it that January and wrote him: “I hope it
has all the success it deserves—and escapes all the troubles that you are
afraid of.”
It didn’ t . Bosley Crowther in The New  Y ork T imes  saluted the film as
recording “one of the happiest m issions ever dispatched from these shores,”
and calle d its ef fect “one of asc ending enthusiasm,” but his was a minority
opinion. Critics who had carped at W alt’ s pretentiousness in Fantasia  and at
his subdued realism in Bambi  now decried his strained and strident
joyfulness. James Agee, writin g in The Nation,  said the film “depresses
me.” “Self-inter ested, belated ingratiation embarrasses me, an d Disney’ s
famous cuteness , however richly it may mirror national infantilism, is hard
on my stomach,” he said. John T . McManus in the left-wing PM  agreed and
admitted to a “m ingled pride and sadness over the growing up o f a beloved
something we all foolishly hoped could stay young forever .” In other words,
the famous Disney touch had become cloying.
But the film hadn’ t been made for the critics, and W alt’ s only  comfort
was tha t his patrons in the Coordinator ’ s Of fice had like d the film
enormously and that the vice president had told Rockefeller it was the
“outstanding ac hievement in the development of hemispheric  solidarity .”
More im portant, the South Americans had liked it too. Some theaters
discontinued their double-feature policy so that they could show Saludos
more frequently , and by one account, at least one audience had threatened to
tear down the th eater if the projectionist didn’ t show Saludos  again. One
embassy of ficial in Bolivia wrote W alt that Disney was “completely adored
in South America since Saludos”  and  that his name “electrifie s” the
Bolivian employees at the embassy . In fact, the only problem with Saludos
was that the co untries that had not been represented in the film were
complaining to the coordinator  about the neglect, prompting one of his
representatives to suggest leaki ng a report that Disney was at work on a
sequel in which those countries would be shown, as indeed he was.