# Página 242  
by commissioning slow-motion photographic studies, he said, of “glass
breaking, bubbl es forming and popping, water drops falling into a tub,”
even smoke swirling, for the an imators to analyze; by instituting a studio
library that eventually grew to two thousand volumes where a staf f of three
provided drawings and photogra phs for the animators; by having photostats
of h uman movement sized to fit the animation board so that th e animators
could dr aw over  the photos and discover for themselves the bas is of action;
even by  having certain animators attend acting classes. Animators at other
studios would grouse that had t hey been given the time Disney animators
had, they  could have produced work just as good, but the menta lity was the
dif ference, not the time. W illiam  T ytla, who had worked for Paul T erry in
New Y o rk before joining the Disney studio, said that when he suggested
T erry hire a mod el to help them  improve their technique, he was told to get
one himself and that T erry dismissed the idea of hiring an instructor like
Graham. Finally T ytla abandoned the ef fort, complaining, “[T]hey said
anyone who goes to art school  is a ‘homo Bolshevik.’” Shamus Culhane
had a similar ex perience at the Fleischer studio. “They could never accept
the fact that time wasn’ t the factor; it was education,” he wrote. “Fleischer
people w ere ope rating from instinct and a scornful rejection of the idea that
principles of writing and animation even existed.”
Now that realism was the basis o f the rapidly evolving Disney a nimation,
providing a connection for the audience that more rudimentary cartoons
could no t provide and permitting them to recognize themselves in Disney
characters as they recognized themselves in live-action stars or the
characters in literature, W alt D isney was in the business of creating life.
“Most people think the word ‘an imation’ means movement,” Ken Peterson,
a D isney  animator , once explained, “but it doesn’ t. It comes from ‘animus’
which m eans ‘li fe’ or ‘to live.’ Making it move is not animation, but just
the mechanics of it.” “W e invest them with life,” W alt told a reporter of his
animated creations.
Disney a nimations were of life, but they were lar ger than life t oo. What
W alt sought was not an imitatio n of life as it was, which live- action films
could do better than animation , but life as one could exaggerate it—a
“caricature of life,” as W alt called it, rooted in realism but expa nding upon