# Página 501  
W alt’ s relationship with those who remained also suf fered. Already
increasingly distant before the strike, W alt became churlish and suspicious.
“It h urt him deeply ,” Joe Grant said of the strike. “He felt betray ed, felt that
everyone who had formerly been behind him had now left him.” Ham
Luske believed that it “almost broke W alt’ s heart” and that his “attitude
changed radicall y from the strike on.” He was bitter . He sincerely believed
that he had created a perfect world for his employees and that they hadn’ t
appreciated it. He even turned on Gunther Lessing, who he thought had
failed hi m durin g the strike. Le ssing kept his position and his  of fice but,
according to W ard Kimball, “only out of pure sympathy .” H e was, said
Kimball, a “broken man.”
The place where everyone had  once caroused was now a “very hard-
nosed p lace,” sa id Jack Kinney , just like the other studios. The joy was
gone. W alt may have been inspi ring, but he had never been a v ery ef fusive
leader , and now he was worse. He had always doled out compliments
parsimoniously , once telling an employee that “praise accomplishes nothing
but a feeling to  a small extent of self-confidence” and warnin g that it is
“just as likely to  be a dangerous  factor .” When he did issue a compliment, it
was seldom directly to one’ s face. T ypically an animator wou ld hear that
W alt had  praised him to a colleague. By the same token W alt wa s contrarian
when it came to anyone else’ s p raise. “[W]e always said if yo u wanted to
get even  with somebody—prai se them in front of W alt,” W ard Kimball
observed, “or if you wanted to d o someone a favor , run them down in front
of W alt and he would stick up for them.”
But the new atmosphere after the strike wasn’ t just a matter of W alt’ s
curtness or contrariness. There  was a fear of W alt now , a fear that had
always been latent in the sweaty palms and nervous silence at the story
sessions, a fear of displeasing him, but that now surfaced as a fear of
arousing his wrath. Even Bianca Majolie, who had known W al t since high
school, would vomit after she made a presentation to him. Everyone in the
studio w as terro rized by the swift distinctive clack of his heels on the hard
gray tile  floor and his hacking smoker ’ s cough as he approached a room,
and the animato rs would jump into their seats when he entered. “Don’ t be
afraid o f me,” W alt would grow l. “I don’ t want to see you ju mping into