# Página 666  
But even with M CA, television wasn’ t proving so easy . Discussions with
Ford and  Chrysl er that summer to sponsor films for television that might be
used in a series,  and discussions with the American Broadcasting Company
to air the series, all had fizzled , and Roy had backed away from doing a
weekly h our -long program at least until the fall of 1952, though even as that
time approached, Roy found himself without his program or the  prospect of
one. T al ks with Lever Brothers h ad run aground on the Disneys’  desire for a
three-year commitment, and Roy was now recommending a fifteen-minute
show to promote upcoming movies. The additional benefit, he wrote W alt,
who wa s in Europe at the time, was that a show , any  show , would “be a
wonderful help in the building up of our financial and corporate program
for t he amusement company , as it would intrigue third parties into coming
into it and havi ng a part of it.” In short, a television show m ight attract
interest in Disneyland.
Whether Roy knew it or not at the time, and he probably did, W alt
already saw this as the plan. As much as he appreciated tele vision as a
promotional tool for the features and as much as he valued the revenue that
television could bring to the stud io so that the company wouldn’ t constantly
be in financial straits, W alt believed—W alt hoped—that in return for a W alt
Disney televisio n program, he could induce a network or a corporate
sponsor to invest in Disneyland; that was the reason he had ha d Roy insist
on a three-year commitment. H e was, in ef fect, trying to sell his old films
and the value of his reputation to finance his park.
All the time th at Roy was tal king to MCA, to ABC, and to various
corporate sponso rs, W alt hadn’ t been idle. Through WED he had bought the
television rights to a popular book titled The Mark of Zorr o  that had
provided the basis for several f ilm versions, including one starring T yrone
Power a s the aristocrat in Mexi can-governed California who dons a black
mask and becomes the sword-w ielding Zorro, a champion of t he poor and
oppressed. W alt ’ s idea was to film the series in Mexico, and early in 1953
he assigned Bill Cottrell to produce, hired a movie veteran named Norman
Foster to  write and direct the s hows, and appointed Dick Irvine to design
the sets. W alt described the Zorr o  series as “my own private venture and not
part of the studio’ s”—a further a ttempt to put distance between himself and