# Página 714  
he grumbled about Lillian’ s spending—as he seldom grumbled about
expenses at the studio or at Di sneyland—he indulged her , alb eit without
being pa rticularly thoughtful about it. One year , Lillian said, he  handed her
a ca talog of fur coats and said, “Here’ s your Christmas present .” Similarly ,
when Lillian asked for a radio, W alt had a lar ge box of radios delivered to
the of fic e. Anoth er year he gave her a petrified log as a present, which was
promptly relocated to Disneyland. And another year , for their anniversary ,
he prese nted he r with a necklac e hung with miniature gold re plicas of all
the Oscars he had won—a tribute not to the marriage but to W alt.
In th e end, the new house that was intended to bring him c loser to his
family d idn’ t, if only because in the first few years, with the construction of
Disneyland, he wasn’ t at Carolwood any more than he had been at W oking
W ay . Ac cording to his secretary , he would usually arrive at the s tudio in the
morning, then immediately go out for a meeting in one of the animation
rooms or take a  meeting in his of fice with the staf f. If he was of f roaming
the studio or , m ore likely , looking in at WED, he often wouldn’ t return to
the of fice until noon. Then he would read his mail, drink a V -8  vegetable
cocktail, eat a lig ht lunch either in the of fice or at the commissar y—“he had
a th eory ,” his secretary said,  “that too much food made you think
confusedly”—and then conduct more meetings through the afternoon until
closing time at f ive o’clock. Then he would return calls and sign letters and,
of cours e, meet with nurse Haz el Geor ge for his end-of-the-day diathermy
treatment, his wind-down, and his drink—a Scotch Mist with water . And
then he would head home for dinner .
But at home h e was usually either drafting plans for Disne yland or
puttering about in his workshop  or playing with his train—at least until he
retired his beloved Carolwood Railroad after the opening of th e park. On
one of its runs th e train derailed, breaking its whistle and emitting a hiss of
steam. A  curious young passenger hopped of f to look and was slightly
scalded. By one account, W alt to ok the train to the studio machine shop and
lodged i t under the drafting table  of one of the Imagineers, Bob Gurr , where
he w ould occasionally visit it. “He would always touch it in a special way ,”
Gurr said, “making sure it was all right.” Sharon had another version.