# Página 518  
our cent ury , you see,” W alt would later tell an interviewer . “I ju st felt, well,
gee, if they’re going to go out a nd try to use battleships and all those other
things, I  just didn’ t believe it would ever work.” In May , even be fore he had
read the  book, he had sent out feelers to Seversky about the p ossibility of
adapting it for the screen, though he warned his contact to “definitely
eliminate my name from all inquiries made.” By July , W alt had closed the
deal.
He knew  that making the film wouldn’ t be easy . The navy , wh ich gave
him mu ch of his government business, feared that long-range land-based
bombers would  obviate the need for aircraft carriers, was adamantly
opposed to Seversky’ s theory , and even called W alt into a staf f meeting
during one of his frequent W ash ington visits to dissuade him fr om making
the film. “The whole point with Seversky , W alt, is not that anybody quarrels
with him upon the value of air power ,” one navy of ficial wrote him
tactfully , “but that he believes in the application of air power by long-range,
land-based bombers which, to carry out his ideas, would ha ve to carry
impossible bomb loads and go i mpossible distances.” (Later the navy went
so far as to prom ise the studio enough business that it wouldn’ t be able to
produce any other films.) Others, like Commander John S. Thatch, a
decorated flier who had served as the technical adviser on the fix ed gunnery
and figh ter tactics series, told W alt that Seversky’ s ideas were unrealistic
and that  short-ra nge missions were preferable; he even challenged Seversky
to an aerial dog fight—Seversky in his big, long-range bombe r , Thatch in
his fighter plane.
But W al t could not be dissuaded. Excited by the prospect of a V ictory
film tha t could use animation to show  h ow long-range  bombers could win
the w ar , he felt his old passion rising again. He began to feel engaged. He
had discovered something that could occupy him throughout the summer ,
something impo rtant, while the rest of the studio churned out its routine
training and educational films. Animator Marc Davis said that W alt was
“sold completel y . Dedicated to it.” And once he had comm itted, W alt
boasted that the studio “became  a sort of Mecca for visiting a irmen” who
agreed with Seversky and deliv ered the latest intelligence to h im, so that
W alt wa s now part of a small m ovement. Seversky himself may have had a