# Página 342  
and didn ’ t reach  the camera dep artment until March 13. “Many felt that to
have the finished picture ready for showing by Christmas 1937 was
impossible,” Da ve Hand later c onfessed, “but we responsible  ones never
wavered.” W alt spent the sprin g either sweatboxing roughs for hours on
end, usu ally whenever an animator had finished enough to show  him, even
if the entire scene was not comp lete, or meeting for long stretch es with the
storymen to refine sequences that had not yet gone to animation, once again
line by line, inflection by inflection. The scene in which the d warfs enter
their cot tage thinking it is inhabi ted by ghosts, one of the first di scussed and
one that  had already been subjected to dozens of meetings, was the subject
of another twenty meetings fro m early January to the end of September ,
many of them at night, and those were only the sessions w ith W alt in
attendance. By July , W alt was i n the sweatbox all day long, day after day ,
examining rough s. There was no detail, not a nod, a wink, an emphasis, or a
posture, that wasn’ t still being analyzed.
The animators felt “tremendous pressure,” Ollie Johnston said, and
tempers began to flare. Dave H and, the supervising director , reached the
point where he couldn’ t talk to an animator without screaming . When Les
Clark had trouble with a scene and tried to explain his problems, Hand
exploded, knocking the drawing board into the air and bellowing , “W e gotta
get the picture out!” A ware that he was becoming a tar get of the  animators’
wrath, Hand protested, “My criticism is all impersonal and I don’ t hesitate
to cr iticize anybody in the Studio excepting W alt.” But tensions  ran so high
that Hand did  crit icize W alt. H and had objected that one prospective scene
played t oo long, and when W alt  of fered to perform it to prove th at it wasn’ t
too long , Hand secretly started a  stopwatch in his pocket, then pulled it out
to show by how much W alt had exceeded the allotted time. By Hand’ s own
admission, W alt was “boiling mad” and stalked out of the room.
T rying to avoid these confron tations, Hal Adelquist, who had been
named t he head assistant directo r early in February , advised his  staf f not to
take issues to Hand or W alt unless they absolutely had to. “W e  must avoid
taking u p the time of men who are making more money and w hose time is
therefore worth  more,” he said. But this created another problem.
Employees doub ted whether the orders they received had really come from