# Página 831  
American popular culture as the dominant culture in the world. He had
founded a school of the arts, and  nearly forty years after his death his name
would a dorn a concert hall in do wntown Los Angeles financed lar gely with
Disney family money . Y et all of these accumulated contributions paled
before a lar ger o ne: he demonstrated how one could assert one’ s will on the
world at the very time when everything seemed to be grow ing beyond
control and beyond comprehension. In sum, W alt Disney had been not so
much a master of fun or irreverence or innocence or even who lesomeness.
He had been a master of order .
The master of order had been so terrified of death that he hadn’ t left
instructions for his interment. H e had told Lillian only that he wanted to be
cremated and that he wanted the ceremony to be small and priv ate because
he despe rately wanted to avoid the undignified public displays he had seen
at o ther celebrity funerals. It was his sons-in-law who chos e the Little
Church of the F lowers at Forest Lawn in Glendale for the fune ral service,
which was held at five o’clock the day after his death. Only  the family
attended, and even then Ruth didn’ t appear for fear that she might be
hounded by the media on her w ay from Portland to California. At Lillian’ s
request the Episcopal minister from Diane’ s church in Encino of ficiated.
Bob Bro wn had suggested that “Battle Hymn of the Republic,”  which W alt
had loved, be pl ayed at the clos e of the service, and as the song concluded
Lillian slowly made her way to the front of the church where the cof fin was,
placed h er hands on it and keened, “I loved you so much. I lo ved you so
much.” No one spoke publicly about the funeral afterward.
For near ly a year after the cremation, W alt Disney’ s ashes rem ained at
Forest Lawn uninterred, the family resisting making a decision on a final
resting place. It was only after Bob Brown, Sharon’ s husband, was suddenly
felled by cancer less than a year after W alt’ s death that Sharon, having
decided her father and her husb and should be interred together , moved to
take action on burying her father ’ s ashes. She and Diane chose an
inconspicuous plot outside the Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Lawn,
dedicated as a “sacred memorial to the freedom bequeathed to  us through
the courage, the wisdom and the faith of our forefathers,” located at a
remote c orner of the three-hundred-acre cemetery where their father , resting