# Página 121  
personally either . W alt and Roy took funds from the company as they
needed them, five dollars here or ten dollars there, so as not to drain the
treasury . For would-be film moguls they lived modestly; the rent on their
apartment was only thirty dollar s a month, though W alt, who always had his
eye on the showier things, did splur ge on a secondhand dark-gray Moon
roadster that became a special source of pride. Not until December 1924,
more than a year after forming the studio, did the brothers begin drawing a
salary , fifty dollars each per week, and even then they drew it irregularly .
Y et as hard as it was, the pat ience seemed to be paying of f. Geor ge
W inkler left New Y ork for Los Angeles on December 8 with a n ew contract
and the prognosi s that “while thi ngs are not 100% rosy , still there is a whole
lot t hat looks fa vorable.” The contract called for another twenty-six Alices
at $1,500 per fil m, with $900 payable on delivery of the negative and $600
payable within ninety days after that—terms that were actually worse than
those of  the first contract, which had paid Disney Bros. $1,800 for the last
six p ictures. The only advantage  was that Disney now shared in the receipts
after the  first $4,000, with the s tudio receiving the next $350 a nd splitting
the proc eeds eq ually after that, though it seemed unlikely at the time that
the films would actually return enough of a profit for the Disneys to share.
There was one other revision in the contract, and this wou ld bring
another dose of reality . W ith t he increase in the number of films to be
produced from twelve to twenty-six, beginning March 1, 1925, the Disneys
were now asked to deliver a new cartoon every three weeks for the first
thirteen installm ents and every two weeks for the second thi rteen. Even
under th e curren t schedule of o ne film every four weeks, W alt was having
trouble deliverin g the pictures, not to mention profiting from them. What
made matters worse was how se riously he took both W inkler ’ s and Mintz’ s
injunctions to make the cartoon s better—injunctions he really didn’ t need.
He was constantly crowing to Mintz over improvements—adding more
gags to the ca rtoons, getting a new motor drive for the c amera that
sharpened the cartoon photography and a new “rock steady” trip od that kept
Alice from jiggling on the scree n—and seemed to relish telling Mintz how
well he thought the films were being received.