# Página 42  
Christmas and was stabbed by a nail hidden in the chunk. (He screamed for
help but  had to w ait twenty minutes before a deliveryman stopped, chopped
the i ce loose, an d took him to a doctor , who pulled out the nail with pliers
and gav e him a tetanus shot.) E ven then he spent his recupera tion helping
Elias put an a ddition on the Bellefontaine house—a new kitchen, a
bedroom, and a bathroom finally to replace the outhouse.
Decades later , in the mists of re visionism, W alt would say that the paper
route helped for ge his character , that he “developed an apprecia tion of what
spare time I did have and used it to great advantage in my hobb ies.” But in
other moments he talked of how the route and its demands—the unyielding
routine, the snow , the fatigue, the lost papers—traumatized and haunted
him. Fo rty year s later he was still awakening in a sweat with nightmares
about the route—that he had missed some customers and had to hurry back
because Elias would be waiting at the corner and might discover W alt’ s
dereliction. And  he remembered how much of his life he surren dered to the
route, how hard he had to work for so little reward, so that, his brother Roy
said, he never even learned to catch a ball the way other boys did.
Adding to the oppression of the route was the humiliation that, in the
beginning at least, it scarcely pr ovided enough money , forcing the Disneys
to suppl ement their income. On his route W alt would deliver theater bills
and sell ice cre am in summer , while Elias arranged for the  McAllister
Creamery in Marceline to ship him butter and eggs, which he then peddled
to h is newspaper customers. A nd when Elias was too ill to make the
deliveries himse lf, he would kee p W alt home from school so that W alt and
Flora could make them. Even then the Disneys scrimped. At Christmas
Flora to ok the cranberry decor ations of f the tree and made sauce out of
them, and W alt said his most memorable Christmas gift was not  any toy but
that pair of new leather boots with metal toe caps to replace th e old worn-
out shoes that he wore on the rou te. He said finding them under the tree was
“like a dream come true! Now I could swagger among my yo ung friends
with proper pride.”
Ruth Disney claimed that her fa ther was not as draconian as W alt made it
seem and that the children never lacked for the “comforts and good things