# Página 497  
returned after Flora’ s death, but  he was, in W alt’ s description, “really a lost
person.” W alt said he had never felt so sorry for anyone in his whole life.
The hard man w ho had once tyr annized his sons and driven W alt to seek a
better imaginative world was no longer .
On September 6, with W alt in South America, Roy left for one of his
trips to W ashington to discuss th e strike settlement. The afternoon before he
left, a Friday , h e got an ur ge nt call from Alma Smith, Eli as Disney’ s
housekeeper . Elias had started vomiting. Late on the afternoon of his
departure Roy spent the last hour before takeof f with his father , who was
still in bed and heaving periodically , though, Roy wrote W alt, “ between his
vomiting he was very rational an d said he felt very well except t hat he had a
bloated abdome n and some distrubance [ sic ] i n his bowels.” He and Roy
talked p rimarily about W alt’ s trip. As Roy was leaving, Elias bade him a
“casual farewell.” Elias slept through the night, but when he awoke the next
morning, he began vomiting aga in, and the doctor ordered an ambulance to
take him to Hol lywood Hospital. On Monday he took a turn for the worse.
The doctors suspected a bowel obstruction and debated whether to operate.
Uncle Robert, who had gone to  the hospital to be at his brother ’ s bedside,
accused the doctors of trying to make money , but Roy phoned from
W ashington with  the decision to proceed. Elias was on the operating table
for t wo hours. He came out of the sur gery well, and Roy flew  home that
Friday to visit h im. Already there was a gur gle in his lungs, su ggesting the
onset of pneumonia. When Roy  and brother Ray arrived the next morning,
September 13, Elias was running a temperature of 105, and the doctors
pronounced his condition “ho peless.” The brothers left at nine to get
breakfast and went home while Elias rested. At noon they received a frantic
call from  the attending nurse summoning them to their father ’ s bedside. As
Roy was  picking up Edna to return to the hospital, he learned that Elias’ s
doctor had called: Elias Disney was dead.
Funeral services  were held at the W ee Kirk o’ the Heather at the Forest
Lawn C emetery , and Elias was interred in a crypt there in the Sanctuary of
T ruth next to hi s wife. When R oy had first heard of his father ’ s condition,
he had written a cable to W alt from W ashington, then decided not to send it
because he didn’ t want to alarm  W alt unnecessarily . When Elias expired,