# Página 540  
friendship and understanding to  the people of all countries.” A Brazilian
newspaper , A Noite,  went even furth er , calling it the “best thing Disney has
made so far .”
Financially if not artistically sp eaking, it was shaping up to be a good
year . Thanks to the quantity of product generated by the war and by the
release of $141,000 in funds that had been impounded in Britain as well as
the susp ension of dividends after April 1941 on the stock it had  issued, the
studio had managed to reduce its debt to the Bank of America to just under
$1 milli on and had working capital of $3 million. Now that th e company
was beginning to post profits again, however , the Bank of America warned
W alt and  Roy that stockholders were unlikely to be as patient as they had
been and suggested that the c ompany convert its preferred  stock into
debentures and common stock, which would give the Disneys  even more
working capital and eliminate a lar ge “sinking fund” they had had to
maintain as a hedge for the preferred stockholders.
This wa sn’ t just  a matter of economics—it was a matter of control. “Do
we wan t to maintain 100% con trol and operation of a company burdened
with deb t and confronted with big possibilities, hoping for a windfall, such
as a big grossing picture or tel evision, to let us keep going?”  Roy asked
W alt. “O r , shall we reconstruct our whole stock set-up in some way that is
more secure and more sure, and have a lesser interest—but nevertheless a
controlling inter est—of a company that is sound and, therefore more safe
and more able t o meet the future properly?” Roy left no doubt where he
stood, e specially since, as he w arned W alt, should any of the Disneys die,
they would have to sell some of their stock to pay the inheritance tax
anyway , and as for letting their employees hold the stock, he adduced Carl
Stalling and Ub Iwerks as exa mples of ordinary stockholde rs who had
lacked the foresight to understand the value of what they had actually been
granted. After the strike W alt may have given up his grandiose idea of the
studio as a wor kers’ community—he complained that his em ployees had
sold the ir stock when the value plummeted because they “l ost faith in
me”—and he had already surrendered power to the executive committee
instituted by the Bank of Amer ica, but he had always wanted to retain as
much control as he could; it w as a part of his redoubt against the world.