# Página 708  
last resort, rather than a hands-o n producer—“[W]e can talk something over
and we arrive at something and they’re of f”—and that the studio staf f was
more au tonomous than it had ever been. Potential screen mater ial was now
considered by a committee at a  monthly “synopsis” meeting, which W alt
never attended, and eventually he entrusted Bill Anderson, who had been
the p roduction manager at the studio and then the vice president of studio
operations, with the job of supervising the films.
T echnically , Anderson assumed authority only in W alt’ s absence, but
W alt was usually absent now , a t the park or abroad or sequestered in his
of fice. As Ben Sharpsteen, who was producing T rue-Life Adventures,
described the new process, “W alt says in ef fect, ‘I’m gonna be gone for
quite a while,’ say six weeks, and he says, ‘Y ou know w e’ve been
accumulating a lot of footage about birds, you know , that stuf f and this
stuf f, and down there,’ and he sa ys, ‘By the way , I want you…to put that in
some kin d of order and draw a bead on it.’” This was a respons ibility—one
that W alt had pr eviously assumed himself—but Sharpsteen felt i t was also a
threat: “I want to see that stuf f in usable shape when I come ba ck or else.”
That wa s the conundrum throug hout the studio. Now that he was insulated
by l ayers of ma nagement, W al t didn’ t want to be bothered, but he also
expected things to be done precisely as he wanted.
If anything, with W alt distracted by the park and often absent, the tension
at the studio, which had been s teadily rising since before the strike more
than ten  years earlier , only intensified. The staf f lived in fear—total abject
fear . Ric hard Fleischer , a film director and the son of W alt’ s ol d rival Max
Fleischer , came to the studio to make 20,000 Leagues  and was surprised at
what he found: “There was a ge neral feeling of nervousness and insecurity
about th e place, which was attributed to the frequent mass firings that
seemed to take place capricio usly ,” he would write. Fleischer said he
dismissed the theory until W alt  confirmed it. “‘Y ou know ,’ he  said to me,
‘every once in a while I just fire everybody , then I hire them  back in a
couple of weeks. That way they  don’ t get too complacent. It keeps them on
their toes.’” Another employee said that W alt’ s staf f greeted hi m “with the
total respect peasants usually sh ow to their king,” and remarked how they
“would fervently agree even if he said 2 plus 2 was 22.” A y oung writer