# Página 546  
Dali sett led into  the studio that winter , and he and W alt spent much of the
early months of 1946 working on Destino  before Dali departed for Del
Monte, w here h e continued to m eet with one of W alt’ s layout artists, John
Hench. The Disney-Dali collaboration, like the Disney-Stokowski teaming,
was a happy one. “The night of our meeting I spent almost enti rely without
sleep,” Dali wrote W alt after one session, referencing the ideas churning in
his h ead. W alt, i n turn, said that where animation ideas usually came slowly
and grud gingly , they seemed to pour out of Dali—“in fact, they spilled over
into all directions such as machines, furniture, jewelry…even an
extraordinary device to indicate  when a painting was finished.” After Dali
and Hen ch had devised Daliesque storyboards in which the god Jupiter
morphed into a sundial and a sundial into a hand covered by ants and the
ants into  bicycle  riders, while the heroine appeared as the shadow of a bell,
which morphed into a real girl and then into a dandelion puf f, and the whole
thing concluded  with a baseball game transforming itself into a ballet,
Dali’ s w ife Gala gushed, “[I]t will become one of the most brilliant
moments of his artistic career .” But W alt, who just months before had been
constantly pushing for speed and economy , advised Dali not to  rush: “W e
are not going to let the pressure of time stop us from getting something that
will be worthy of Dali’ s talents.”
This fre sh appro ach was typical of W alt’ s new orientation in the months
after the  war . Now that the troop s had departed and the gloom seemed to be
lifting, t he restraints were of f, and he thought he could undo w hat the war
had done. He could be great again. But there were problems and they
surfaced quickly . For one thing,  Roy wasn’ t inclined to let W alt pursue his
ambitious plans. Despite the economies that the studio had adopted as a
result of the wa r and despite the infusion of cash from the debentures,
despite even the fact that the lar gest of the outside stockholders, industrialist
Floyd B . Odlum, the president of the Atlas Corporation, was encouraging
the stud io to resume feature p roduction, Roy didn’ t feel the studio had
suf ficient resour ces to return to  its old production schedule n ow that the
government work had dried up. It wasn’ t that he wanted to assert power
over W a lt or to avenge W alt’ s p eremptory treatment of him; he always saw
his r ole as one of compliance and facilitation. It was rather that he felt he
had to save W alt from W alt’ s own excesses. As he later explain ed it, “After