# Página 201  
“whatever we did had to be better than anybody else could do it, even if you
had to animate it nine times, as I once did.”
Achieving that quality was still extremely dif ficult, even with his new ,
more ex perienced staf f. As early as November 1930 W alt was having a hard
time me eting the  Columbia release schedule and was trying to find a way to
speed u p production without sacrificing the values that had won him
plaudits, but he also realized that making good pictures more quickly would
cost more, eating up the Columbia advances. By March the production
delays had become so severe tha t Columbia vice-president Joe Brandt came
to the studio for what Roy described as a “showdown,” which was averted
only because W alt suddenly ins tituted a new system, dividing his staf f into
three crews, which would be working simultaneously on three dif ferent
cartoons. This, Roy hoped, wou ld cut the production time for each cartoon
from three weeks or more down to two weeks or less.
But if the new system sped delivery , it did little to help the Disneys’
bottom line. Their contract with  Columbia was what was called a “60/40,
40/60,” meaning  that they receiv ed their advances against 40 pe rcent of the
grosses to Columbia as a distr ibution fee with the remaining 60 percent
dedicated to repaying the advance plus the cost of prints and advertising.
Once these costs were recovered, the Disneys received 60 percent of the
profits and Columbia 40 percen t. In ef fect, Columbia was secu red with the
first dol lars it received while t he Disneys were at the mercy of both the
market and of C olumbia, which not only raked in the money but also did
the accounting. “It worked,” Roy griped, “into a very unfair situation.”
From th e beginning of their asso ciation, after his experiences with Mintz
and Powers and the aborted c ollusion between the latter and Columbia
itself, W alt had been deeply sus picious of his distributor . He shared Roy’ s
assessment, mad e the week of their agreement, that one had to be vigilant
with Columbia because “they aren’ t overburdened with ‘good intentions.’”
W ithin months W alt felt that Columbia, seemingly content with the profits
it w as making on the Mickeys and the Sillies and with a fairly lar ge
collection of other shorts to distribute, was already sloughing of f on its
ef forts t o promote the Disney c artoons, not to mention shortchanging the