# Página 575  
didn’ t sl eep tha t night. Neither , he said, did W alt. The next m orning Roy
was sitti ng at his desk still fretting when he heard W alt’ s foot steps in the
hallway and his hacking cough. “He came in and he was fille d up,” Roy
said, “he  could hardly talk.” And  W alt said, “Isn’ t it amazing what a horse’ s
ass a fella can be sometimes?”
Though he was only forty-four , in addition to the mental strain he wasn’ t
feeling w ell physically either , which made it even more dif ficult to cope.
Always slight and fragile, save for his time in France when his frame filled
out, he suf fered from a painful flare-up of an old polo injury , f or which he
received daily diathermy treatments in his of fice and which got so bad that
he had to be hospitalized early in 1947; his cholesterol rating was just under
250 milligrams, where 180 mill igrams was normal; his teeth bo thered him;
he w ould soon n eed reading glasses; and he couldn’ t seem to s hake colds,
possibly because  of his chain-smoking. Between the tensions at the studio
and the nagging problems with  his health, one of the most famous and
celebrated men in America wrote his robust postman brother , Herbert, about
how much he envied Herbert’ s life. Of his brother ’ s new trailer and the
freedom it provided, W alt wrote , “I’d give a lot for a little of it,  and believe
me, I mean it.”
But it wasn’ t ju st the sense of corporate crisis or middle-age i nfirmities
that were af flicting W alt Disn ey . In the same way that the strike had
stif fened and soured him, he had under gone another personal transformation
during the war , one that paralleled his country’ s transformation. America
had ente red the  war powerful but naïve. It emer ged from the war as the
dominant nation  in the world; in President T ruman’ s words, spo ken on V -J
Day when Japan surrendered, it  held the “greatest strength and the greatest
power which man has ever reached.” W ithin the next two years the United
States would enjoy unpreceden ted prosperity and abundance. In 1947 it
produced nearly  half the world’ s manufactures, which led to a sinking
unemployment rate, rising wag es (roughly a 45 percent rise in just four
years), and a sky rocketing birthr ate (nearly one million more bir ths per year
than dur ing the Depression). After two decades of isolationism, not unlike
W alt’ s own isolation in his studio, the country had also been forced to
assume a new international responsibility—what publisher Henry Luce had