# Página 237  
when they demanded fear , swashbuckling when they demanded courage,
merry when they required merriment. But the more elaborated stories that
Sears’ s department began turning out at W alt’ s behest required more
elaborated chara cters as well—actors rather than en actors. “ The big  reason
nobody rememb ers what happened in the early days was that th ere was no
real story and no personality ,” one animator observed. “That’ s why
everybody thinks that W alt Disney invented the cartoon.”
A character like Felix the Cat, W alt once told Frank Thomas, had “little
bits of personali ty here and ther e,” and W alt himself had attemp ted to for ge
a person ality fo r Oswald the R abbit and later Mickey Mouse, but he felt
that these bits were not suf ficient. W alt, who was always trying to nudge
animation closer to the live-action films of Chaplin or Keaton, understood
that the  audience needed involvement. They needed to care about the
characters on the screen, not just to laugh at them, and he began stressing to
his animators the importance of creating characters who could elicit
emotional  reactions from the viewers. “It was the uppermost thing,” W ilfred
Jackson remembered of this period, “and it all came about because W alt
wanted to make the cartoon characters believable to the audience. Right
from the start he  didn’ t want th em to be just something moving around on
the screen and d oing funny things.” “[Y]our characters had to be  the kind of
characters that people could re late to,” Eric Larson concurred. As W alt
himself later put it in a succin ct formulation of his aesthetic, “The most
important aim of any of the fin e arts is to get a purely emotion al response
from the beholder .”
The only way to elicit that response, W alt believed, was through
personality—a s et of characteristics that were unique to the ch aracter and
that coa lesced t o define him. A t the Disney studio the edict came down
from W alt that animated figures were no longer to be simply functional for
the gag. They had to be full- bodied or , as one animator d escribed it,
“believable in motion and emotion.” Aside from the general aspiration to
excellence, of all the numerous contributions and innovations that W alt
Disney bequeathed to animation , this may very well have been the single
most important  because it was the one that changed anim ation most
radically , not just in its physical appearance or in its narrative amplitude but