# Página 639  
much, it seemed, because W alt was afraid of the idea getting out as because
he didn’ t want the project to be infected and corrupted by the studio’ s
corporate mentality . This was his—not the company’ s. He installed
Anderson in a r oom on the third  floor of the Animation Building to which
only he and And erson had the k eys. Here Anderson painted. Eventually the
two of them w ould take little expeditions to downtown Los Angeles,
hunting for materials. Sometim es W alt would disappear for a day or two,
Anderson said, and then return  with a “whole sack full” of va rious items
from wh ich to construct the scenes. W alt himself admitted to one vendor of
materials, “I become so absorbe d that the cares of the studio fad e away…at
least for  a time.” Indeed, as An derson explained it, W alt was “ having such
fun mak ing thes e things that he  completely for got to pay me, ” and when
W alt happened to ask whether Anderson had been compensated and
Anderson said he hadn’ t, “I got paid and paid and paid.”
Over time Anderson drew ne arly two dozen sketches of a rchetypal
American scenes—among them a blacksmith reading a newspaper , a
minister in the pulpit, a klatch of gossiping women, a general store, a
granny i n her rocker before a he arth. But even before he began constructing
his t ableaux, W alt came to two realizations. The first was that he couldn’ t
fabricate the scenes completely by himself and that he would need more
assistance. He recruited a scul ptor named Christodoro to help make the
figures and a sketch artist named Harper Gof f, whom he had met in a
London model train shop during his European trip to oversee T r easur e
Island.  The second realization was that the scenes couldn’ t be static. They
had to move, wh ich required the additional recruitment of machinist Roger
Broggie, who had helped W alt build his train, and an animator -cum-sculptor
named W athel Rogers.
Now W a lt, insp ired by wind-up toys that he had found and dis sected in
Europe, began an experiment. In February 1951 he hired th e actor and
dancer Buddy Ebsen to perform  a short tap dance in front of a grid. (W alt
directed it himself.) The performance was filmed on 35mm sto ck and then
analyzed by Broggie and Rogers to determine how they might replicate the
movements with a mechanical figure that Christodoro had made. Broggie
later recalled that they examined the footage frame by fram e, only to