# Página 401  
where we got i nto trouble,” he told a meeting of the Bambi  crew some
months later . “Not having a thing prepared. T rying to build a s tory before
we ever knew it.” Another time he complained, “W e went through
Pinocchio  and  didn’ t plan any music to sp eak of at all. W e didn’ t plan o ur
music and dialogue in between.”
The maj or draw back to the lack  of preparation was the failure  to tackle
fully the  character of Pinocchio. As W alt put it bluntly at the outset, “One
dif ficulty in ‘Pinocchio’ is that people know the story , but they don’ t like
the character ,” who, in the book, is often cruel. It was a sign of his
dissatisfaction with the characte r that W alt suggested they enlar ge the role
of the Blue Fairy  and have her appear in dif ferent guises, includ ing that of a
blue cric ket, to help guide Pinocchio and keep him on a righteo us path. But
that was only a n expedient. W alt clearly had no handle on  Pinocchio,
describing him at one point as  “fresh,” like ventriloquist Edgar Ber gen’ s
wise-cracking dummy Charlie McCarthy , or lusty , like Harpo Marx,
grabbing for the fairy whenever she appears. He wasn’ t even sure whether
Pinocchio should act like a puppet or a small boy and whethe r he should
appear wooden or flexible. When Frank Thomas, Milt Kahl, and Ollie
Johnston took the former tack and animated 150 feet of the p uppet early
that February , W alt was displeased.
As the story goe s, including the of ficial studio record, shortly after seeing
Thomas’ s anim ation, W alt decided to put Pinocchio  o n hiatus from
February through September while the staf f reworked the script. In fact,
W alt kep t working on, revising, and even sweatboxing scenes right through
July , but he knew he had hit a wall. Ham Luske claimed that after looking at
the story boards of a scene in which Pinocchio terrorizes Gep petto’ s cat,
Figaro, he suggested to W alt t hat the audience would lose sy mpathy for
Pinocchio unles s the puppet ha d some way to discern right from wrong.
That comment, Luske said, was the one that triggered W alt to begin
thinking about reconceptualizing the film. As W ard Kimball told  it, “[A]fter
six or eight mon ths, W alt looked at it and he says, ‘It’ s not working right.’
So he threw it o ut and everybody had to start all over again.” T his time he
fastened on a character who had had only a minor role in Collodi’ s novel—
a cri cket whom Pinocchio stom ps to death. In a revised synopsis that June,