# Página 56  
scribbling cartoons “even when the teacher thought we all ought to be doing
mundane things like schoolwork,” while another remembered his desk
cluttered with pictures of pretty dancing girls. His sister claimed that during
school s ocials held every Thursday afternoon he would get u p and draw ,
and another student recalled W alt entertaining classmates by sketching a
man’ s head on a lar ge sheet of paper , then turning it upside down to reveal a
dif ferent face. W alt so excelled at illustration that when his art t eacher gave
a ho mework assignment of drawing the human body and W alt submitted a
perfect r endering, she thought he had copied it and made him d raw another
in front of the class. Describing  students with one- or two-wo rd epithets,
The V oice  simply called W alt “Artist.”
And wh en he wasn’ t drawing, he was thinking about it. Occasionally he
played hooky , going to the Art Institute or hanging around the  newspaper
of fices “with my mouth wid e open, watching (to me, at least) the
fascinating thing s that went on and hoping that some day I, too, would be
on the staf f of a  big newspaper .” He revered a Chicago T ribune  cartoonist
named Carey Orr who drew a feature called “The T iny T rib ” that
summarized the news of the day through barbed illustrations, and W alt
began drawing a takeof f of his own called “The T iny V oice. ” By  the  winter ,
encouraged by one of the V oice  editors, he was attending evening classes
three tim es a week downtown at the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts in the
W illoughby Bui lding, where Orr taught, getting his father to foot the bill by
convincing him  it had educatio nal value. It was the first time that W alt
worked with live models, and he  was so entranced by the process he would
not even take a bathroom break. But despite these classes, W alt realized he
would never be a fine artist an d that his talent lay in caricature. His real
excitement at the academy was taking a class in cartooning from LeRoy
Gossett, who worked for the Chicago Herald.  In the end he attended the
academy for only a short time—probably until the spring of 1918—but he
later called his time there “no doubt the turning point in my whole career .”
Still, rea lizing perhaps how long the odds were of landing a n ewspaper
job, he hadn’ t completely abandoned the idea of show business. While he
drew at every o pportunity , he also sent away for books on magic with the
idea of doing tricks onstage. A t the same time he and a fellow McKinley