# Página 610  
abandoning animation altogether . When one of them, Milt Ka hl, went to
W alt’ s of fice to protest, W alt sai d, “W ell, I’ll tell you, Milt. I hav e to make a
whore of myself to pay your salary . It’ s as simple as that.”
But it wasn’ t qu ite that simple, because there was another consideration
in decid ing to make a live-acti on feature. The British government, in an
attempt to revive its own film industry after the war , had im posed a 75
percent import tax on American  films shown in Britain and ordered that 45
percent of the f ilms shown in British theaters be made in En gland. (The
American State Department had agreed to a similar quota with France,
restricting the number of imported American films there to 1 10, to be
supplied by the major producti on companies, which ef fectively froze out
the D isneys, and Roy wrote Sec retary of State General Geor ge Marshall to
protest.) For a s tudio that had al ways relied heavily on foreign receipts and
had been  devastated by wartime restrictions, these were terrible blows. T o
make matters worse, the Fre nch and British governments had both
impounded receipts earned by American studios in those countries, insisting
that the currenc y be spent there . For the Disney studio, this amounted to
more than $1 million. Obviously , W alt couldn’ t set up an animation studio
in England or F rance, but he had another option. He could make a live-
action fi lm in England and finan ce it with the blocked funds. In ef fect, then,
when W alt Disn ey finally crossed over into live action, it was because the
British government had forced him to do so.
The project W alt selected for his British live-action feature, as he was
winding down with So Dear to My Heart,  was Robert Louis Stevenson’ s
T r easur e Island,  a bout a young boy who joins up with a group of pirates,
and he dispatched Perce Pearce and Fred Leahy to England to supervise the
production. But  W alt, who was  still at loose ends, decided that he would
take Lillian and the girls for a European vacation on the prete nse that he
had to supervise  the film perso nally . (Later he was candid abo ut it. “I did
them in summer ,” he said of h is English productions. “That gave me a
chance t o…get a way .”) It was cl early a relief to be free of the studio that he
had once loved so deeply , and Disney representative W illiam Levy wrote
Roy that W alt had arrived that June “in excellent spirits and full of