# Página 805  
city arranged in a wheel three miles in diameter . (As with Mickey Mouse’ s
body , the circle was the shape of comfort.) At the center was th e fifty-acre
downtown commercial hub; in some plans it was a fully enclosed air -
conditioned complex with a thirty-story hotel, shops, markets, and theaters
arranged into international zone s. Radiating in concentric circles from the
hub were a greenbelt park, high-density apartments, and low-density
residential areas. T raf fic and  garbage collection were to be routed
under ground on  an expressway , and public transportation, a mo norail, was
to run from the outlying circles to the inner ones, where residents would
board “p eople m overs” or small electric trains. An industrial par k was to be
situated nearby , connected by the monorail, and the entire city was to be
serviced by a jet airport. And in the middle of it all, as W alt imagined it,
would be W alt Disney himself. “I vividly remember sitting next to W alt on
a plane when he pointed to the  center of EPCOT , an oval-sh aped area,”
Imagineer Bob Gurr later related. “W alt said, ‘When this EPCOT gets up
and running, and we have all t he participants there, this spot with a little
bench is  where Lilly and I are going to sit and watch.’” But that restful
moment would have to wait.
VI
If Holly wood used W alt Disney to defend itself against char ges of
depravity , so the protectors of American culture used him to  defend the
country against the char ges of materialism, imperialism, racism, and
hypocrisy that were now being leveled as civil rights protests escalated,
military involvement in Southeast Asia intensified, and fissures in
America’ s social fabric widened. W alt Disney was the living antidote to all
of this turmoil, t he embodiment for the country’ s cheerleaders of everything
that was  still right with the nation. He was a Horatio Alger hero  whose life
demonstrated s ocial mobility . He was a naïve artist whose work
demonstrated a Jamesian unpretentiousness and common sense . He was a
visionary whose plans demonstrated the breadth of American imagination
and the power of American will. And however he behaved privately at his
studio, he was publicly a mod est, af fable, and decent man w hose image
demonstrated America’ s own decency and generosity of spirit.