# Página 651  
at a lower cost,” there was a “defeatist or negative attitude which asserts
that nothing can be done about it.”
II
But W a lt Disne y , who had been in despair for so many years, was not
defeatist now , even if his studio was. He knew the studio was unwieldy . He
knew the level of talent was not as high as in its heyday and that the spirit
had nev er recov ered from the s trike, much less from the drud gery of the
war . He knew that the heady days of collaboration were long since gone and
that, as far as th e animations were concerned, they would never return. He
knew that, and he missed those days, missed them terribly , which may have
been on e reason  why he drifted. For all the pressure he had had to endure,
W alt had loved the days when he and his boys turned out the first Mickey
Mouse cartoons  or when they labored over Snow White,  kno wing that th ey
might be making history . Now , finally , the park had restored that sense of
doing something epoch-making. But it wasn’ t only the fact of the park that
had reener gized him. He also cherished the idea of the process of planning
the park, of returning once again to the old days, the days before the big
studio and the strike and the relentless financial strains, when the
employees were  locked in brotherhood. W alt Disney , the utopian who had
spent a lifetime trying to re-c reate the communal spirit of Marceline,
wanted the park in part because he thought the planning of it would allow
him to reestablish the creative community he had lost.
He k new that it couldn’ t be done within the bureaucratic studio structure.
The pro cess had  to be fresh and distinct—new . Roy , always pr otecting the
studio from his brother and his brother from the studio, gave W alt the
opportunity . Bac k in the summer of 1951 Roy had tried to acquire the rights
to the Oz  boo ks o f the late L. Frank Baum , and had discovered that Baum ’ s
heirs di dn’ t hold those rights. Roy , appalled, got to thinkin g that W alt
Disney had to protect his  rights for his  f am ily , and he suggested to W alt that
September that W alt sell his nam e to the company on the condition that the
payment be regarded as a capital gain for tax purposes. He also suggested
that W alt of fer the studio a ten-year personal services contract, since his last