# Página 87  
send-up of “The Musicians of Brementown,” a fairy tale by the Brothers
Grimm.* At the same time he practiced with a reel of jokes and
commentaries similar to the Laugh-O-grams that he called Laf flets, possibly
as a way to break in his staf f. Since he could work only in his of f-hours and
since his recruits were young a nd inexperienced, it took him six months,
into the spring of 1922, to complete the fairy tale. W alt immedia tely tried to
sell it— a friend  at a local film distributor collared producers fo r him—but
in the meantime he drove the Model T to outlying theaters in Missouri and
Kansas, of fering exhibitors his  services to make ads like Cauger ’ s that
could keep his a nticipated studi o running. “[T]hat was W alt al l the time,”
Roy Disney recollected, “driving himself frantic, day and night.”
Roy believed that Cauger be gan to suspect W alt might b ecome a
competitor , and W alt seemed to be angling to do so, but Fred Harman, who
accompanied W alt on these selling expeditions, said that “we j ust couldn’ t
swing it,” and eventually their Ford was repossessed. Even so, W alt was far
from def eated. On the contrary , he seemed strangely elated, cer tain that his
fairy tales would find a distributor and that he would soon be running his
own studio full-time, and he began seriously considering leaving the Film
Ad C o., even though he had no concrete prospects, just more of  his wishful
thinking. His father , who had s uf fered so many economic setbacks of his
own, advised him not to go into  business, warning that he could go broke.
W alt got more encouragement from Roy , but he had been inclined to leave
anyway . Cheerfu l, self-confident, and even a little af fected—at the Film Ad
Co. he took to  wearing an ey eshade and smoking a pipe—he was too
independent-minded even at twenty to think of himself as som eone else’ s
employee for long. T aking the name Laugh-O-Gram Films, Inc., from his
Newman shorts, W alt had articles of association drawn up on May 18, and a
certificate of incorporation was  issued by the Missouri secret ary of state
five days later , with W alt listed as company president, even though he was
still a minor and  legally too you ng to be a corporate of ficer . The purpose of
the a ssociation, as described in the articles, was to “own, make, produce,
buy , lease, rent, sell, release, distribute and deal in screen, industrial and
commercial adv ertising and motion pictures of every kind and character”
and, for good measure, to rent out equipment and operate a ph oto lab too.