# Página 847  
*W alt was also thinking of his animation legacy now . At least since 1953 he
had been soliciting writers for a book on the art of animation, only to reject
every candidate because he didn’ t trust them. The project languished for
several years until W alt finally settled on an Associated Press reporter
named Bob Thomas. W alt suggested that Thomas work with Jaxon and
Dick Huemer , and “since I am working with them on other projects, I could
be close to it, too.” The book was eventually published. Memo, W alt to
Jimmy Johnson, Re: Bob Thomas, March 25, 1957, Jimmy Johnson Folder ,
W alt Disney Corr ., Inter -Of fice, 1956–1957, Disneyland J, A 1642, WDA.
Return to text.
*Retta Scott on Bambi  became the “first girl animator ,” in W alt’ s words, but
there would not be many more. In an Associated Press interview in 1946,
W alt attributed the dearth of women animators to the fact that women were
not particularly good at cartooning and that they lacked a sense of humor—
statements for which W alt received a great deal of criticism. When Joe Lee,
the chief editorial writer of the T opeka State Journal,  came to W alt’ s
defense, W alt wrote him, “I suppose the first thing I should tell you is that I
am sleeping inside again,” then admitted, “I guess there isn’ t any sucker
bigger than the one who sounds of f about the fair sex, in a manner which
they like to construe as detrimental to them, but I must plead either nolo
contendere or non compos mentis.” Still, he concluded unrepentantly , “[I]f
you think they possess a real sense of humor I’d like to be around some
night when you are explaining how come you stayed out at the poker game
’ til two o’clock in the morning.” Bob Thomas, AP , March 18, 1946; W alt to
Joe Lee, Mar . 25, 1946, L Folder , W alt Disney Corr ., 1945–1946, L-P , A
1535, WDA.
Return to text.
*When, as the fair drew to a close, the subsidy was revealed, it became a
subject of controversy . No other state received a similar loan or grant from