# Página 31  
Y oung W alt Disney was impre ssed by the town’ s appearance—that it
looked exactly the way a small town should look. From what the local
newspaper descr ibed as a “motle y array of tents and shacks” at i ts founding,
Marceline had, by the time the Disneys moved there, become a “dignified
and sturdy” town of roughly 4,5 00 residents, with two hundred houses built
in the preceding  two years alone. “A stranger coming here is amazed at the
number of lovely lawns and elegant homes,” a civic booster beamed a few
years after the D isneys settled there. “In this feature she is excelled by no
city of equal population on the continent.” Down the main thoroughfare,
Kansas A venue,  still unpaved a t the time of the Disneys’ arrival, were the
Simpson & Miller Dry Goods Store; Hayden & Anderson’ s meat market;
the Meriden Creamery; the three-story New Y ork Racket Store, where, an
advertisement boasted, a bride could order her complete trousseau and then
select the furnishings for her new home; Hott’ s T avern, run by Judge Hott,
where “you are sure of getting a  good bed—provided the house is not full”;
R. J. Dall & Sons ice company ; the Brown Hardware Company; Sutton’ s
T onsorial Parlor; the Allen Implement Company for farm machinery;
Zircher ’ s Jewelry Store with its free-standing clock on the corner; J. E.
Eillis Bi g Department Store; and the two-story gray granite Allen Hotel.
Just of f Kansas  A venue at the center of town was another qu intessential
image o f quaint small-town life—Ripley Square, a wooded park with a
band gazebo, a long pond, and a cannon sitting atop a four -sided plaster
base with a mound of cannonballs nearby .
But how ever much it may ha ve looked the archetype of h idebound
agrarian America, Marceline was not especially conservative—with its
lar ge workforce , it was a hotbed of support for the Democratic populist
W illiam Jennings Bryan—and it prided itself on its progressivism, which
allowed young W alt to receive his cultural education there and led him to
comment once that “more things of importance happened to me in
Marceline than have happened since—or are likely to in the future.” In
Marceline W alt saw his first circus and attended his first Chautauqua, a
traveling tent show that prominently featured the leading orators of the day .
In M arceline he broke his piggy bank to get money to watch Maude Adams
play Pet er Pan in a touring com pany , inspiring him to reprise t he role in a
school p roduction. “No actor ever identified himself with the part he was