# Página 357  
September scree ning, wrote W alt, “It’ s probably too soon to talk ‘Box
of fice’ but regardless of the latter I shall always say it’ s a truly great job
which you and your gang have done—and a lot of people will be happier
for it.”
The reviewers were no less ecstatic. W riting in The New  Y ork T imes  after
Snow White  d ebuted  at the Radio City Music Hall, New Y ork’ s premiere
movie theater , Frank Nugent gushed, “Let your fears be quieted at once: Mr .
Disney and his amazing technical crew have outdone themselves. The
picture more than matches ex pectations. It is a classic, a s important
cinematically as  ‘The Birth of a Nation’ or the birth of Mick ey Mouse.”
T ime,  which featured W alt in a color cover photo playing with models of the
dwarfs a t his desk, immediately  declared it “an authentic masterpiece, to be
shown i n theaters and beloved by new generations long after  the current
crop of Hollyw ood stars, writers and directors are sleeping where no
Prince’ s kiss can wake them.” Otis Fer guson in The New Republic  went
even fur ther , anointing it “among the genuine artistic achievements of this
country ,” and columnist W estbro ok Pegler would call it the “happiest event
since A rmistice.” Critic Gilbert Seldes, long a Disney admirer and
advocate, was given a private s creening and left saying “he tho ught Metro
Goldwyn might just as well close their studios as long as you produce
feature pictures .” Even the Communist Daily W orker  praised the film,
seeing th e dwarfs as a “miniature communist society” and the vultures that
attack the Queen as “T rotskyites.”
These critical verdicts would be enthusiastically endorsed by audience
reaction, and Snow White  would become firmly entrenched as one of the
most po pular films ever made. Observers dif fered, however , as to why
people loved the film. At the tim e of its release, many critics attributed its
appeal to  escapism from the turm oil of the world, just as they ha d done with
Mickey Mouse. Frank Nugent, revisiting the film in The New  Y ork T imes  in
January 1938, wrote, “W ars are  being fought as the picture unreels; crimes
are being committed; hatreds are  being whetted; riots are being brewed. But
the world fades away when M r . Disney begins weaving his spell and
enchantment takes hold.” Othe rs cited the awesome power of the sheer
technical achievement: the collaboration of the nearly six hundred