# Página 813  
would d rive them out to Disneyland to stay in his fire station apartment and
have the  run of t he park. Usually they would spend one weekend a month at
the Caro lwood house. “W e’d play on the lawn and around the great big
pool,” recalled Joanna Miller . “W e’d stack up the patio furnitu re to make
jets and rockets. And Grandpa would often be sitting there on the lawn,
reading scripts, enjoying the glow of all the activity around him.”
VII
It was almost as if W alt had a premonition. It wasn’ t only the talk of
succession or the wistful reveries about what would happen to the company
after he was gone. A sense of melancholy seemed to shroud him. He was
reflective and increasingly pensive. On Fridays, at the end of the workweek,
he w ould occasionally invite the Sherman brothers to his of fice and
discourse about the future. Then inevitably he would wander to the window ,
stare int o space, as he so often did now , and ask them to “p lay it!”—a
command so familiar to the Shermans that they knew he meant “Feed the
Birds” from Mary Poppins,  about an old woman outside St. Paul’ s
Cathedral who sells bags of crumbs to feed the birds there. W hether W alt
related to the song because he related to the woman’ s loneliness, or whether
in a life of grand gestures he appreciated her small one, or whether he
recognized in her his own m ortality , or whether the woman simply
reminded him of his mother , he  never said, and no one would ever know .
But hearing the song, he would always cry .
Still, not so mu ch sadness but busyness, a seeming need for  constant
activity , characterized him now .  He was back in the tumult an d glad of it.
When R ichard Schickel proposed to write a biography—“The guy just has a
sincere desire to write the best book ever on W alt’ s contribution to the
education, entertainment and the happiness of the world,” one studio press
representative told press head Joe Reddy after Schickel visited the studio—
the s tudio and W alt both agreed; then, suddenly , W alt changed his mind and
decided to table the project. “As far as I’m concerned I am  just in the
middle  o f my c areer ,” he wrote the editor who had suggested Schickel. “I
have several years and several p rojects to go before my life story should be