# Página 47  
not g enerate himself. Roy fed of f of W alt’ s ener gy and buoyancy and even
recklessness. W alt was the vicarious outlet for a measured and cautious
young man. W alt was Roy’ s own escape.
Meanwhile W alt found his outlet for release outside his family , two doors
up the street. The Pfeif fers were, W alt Pfeif fer would say , W alt’ s “real
family ,” and their house was what W alt later called, after Uncle Remus, his
“laughing place. ” “My own family were all pretty unfrivolous, hardworking
people,” W alt wrote a correspon dent, expressing his constant longing for a
more ex uberant environment. “ There was nothing un happy about them—
they jus t weren’ t used to having fun. But this wasn’ t so with the Pfeif fers.
Whatever they did, they had th e best time doing it, and they w ere always
together .” W alt Pfeif fer was mo re direct: “[O]ld Elias didn’ t li ke anything
that had anything to do with ent ertainment. He was kind of ‘churchy’ as we
called it in those days…. He’d read the Bible.”
In ef fect the Pfe if fers adopted W alt, and he escaped into them. W alt had
met W alt Pfeif fer in fifth grade at the Benton School even before the
Disneys had moved to the sam e block on Bellefontaine as the Pfeif fers.
They had become casual friend s then, but the relationship wa s cemented
later , when W alt Pfeif fer came  down with the mumps and W alt Disney ,
dismissing Mrs. Pfeif fer ’ s war nings and saying he had already had the
mumps himself, came over and kept the bedridden Pfeif fer company ,
teaching him how to draw . Th e two soon became inseparable, spending
their time drawing together or playing with Pfeif fer ’ s dog Brownie.
The dee per bond between them, however , was not proximity; it was
exhibitionism. A s his masquerading attested, W alt Disney loved to perform,
and so did W alt  Pfeif fer , a moo n-faced boy as extroverted as his friend. In
fact, the  Pfeif fer s were a whole  family of performers. Mr . Pfei f fer was the
treasurer of the local United Leather W orkers Union, but his real love was
show business, and his son called him a “ham.” At the Disney house Elias,
thinking that W alt might becom e a musician, insisted that W alt take violin
lessons and would slap his elbow when he stuck it out incorr ectly . (W alt
claimed to have a “tin ear ,” and  the lessons ended in “mutual disgust” after