# Página 770  
announce the project. Not eve ryone in Illinois was pleased. One paper
objected that the Lincoln robot was a “cheap carnival trick that would
demean the memory of Abraham  Lincoln and degrade the Illino is exhibit,”
while a nother called it “macabre.” But speaking before an Elks Club
luncheon in Springfield that day , W alt assured his listeners th at his own
reputation was on the line and that the exhibit would be anything but a trick.
“Imagine you’re  in the presence of that great man,” he suggested, then
promised that Lincoln would seem genuinely alive—“Maybe more alive
than I am.” The criticism subsided. Pygmalion had charmed them all.  
While W alt was negotiating w ith the state of Illinois, WED received an
ur gent c all from  the Pepsi-Cola Company . W ith the opening of the fair little
more than a ye ar away , Pepsi, which was collaborating with  the United
Nations International Children’ s Fund (UNICEF), had been dithering over
its own proposa ls and had finally contacted Disney to inquire  whether it
might pl an an exhibit. The of fer was daunting. Pepsi had a spac e of roughly
94,000 square feet at the fair and a budget of only $650,000. It was more
daunting given the schedule. T he old Disneyland supervisor , Joe Fowler ,
who had  been the liaison between Disney and Pepsi, told Pepsi t here simply
wasn’ t e nough time. That, Dick Irvine later recalled, infuriated W alt. “I’ll
make th ose deci sions,” he insisted, then instructed his staf f to tell Pepsi that
he would do it.
By any rational assessment, Fowler was right: there wasn’ t  enough time.
W alt did  not even meet with Pe psi vice president Don Kendall until March
1963. B ut as WED sculptor R olly Crump recalled, W alt rounded up his
WED staf f one day and announ ced that there was “one more piece of real
estate th at they’v e of fered to us.” W alt said he already had an idea for it. He
described to them a “little boat ride that maybe we can do.” Cru mp said the
designers were shaken. “[W]e thought a little boat ride ? I mean, God, we
were working on Lincoln, the Carousel of Progress, both of which were
using the highest technology and animatronic figures. And we were
working on Ford, too. All of this, and W alt wants a little boat ride!”