# Página 723  
because of the longstanding bu t erroneous rumor that he had been born
there. But “Lilly just about had a fit having to be away from the
grandchildren fo r so long,” he said, “and I guess I’ll have to admit to being
homesick for them too.” While they had been away , W alt had had another
home built at Smoke T ree in Palm Springs, to replace the one he had sold to
raise money for Disneyland. Now , when he and Lillian weren’ t traveling
around t he coun try or abroad, th ey would retreat to the desert, where, W alt
wrote a friend, he made it an “in violable rule not to do anything but rest and
relax.” T o which one might hav e fairly asked, what did he need to rest and
relax from, save the pressure of having to be W alt Disney?
VII
Animation, the base on which the empire had been founded, was now being
sustained more out of tradition and habit than for profits—something W alt
acknowledged a s early as 1953 , when he told Bill Anderson that while he
didn’ t w ant to spend his time on animation, it nevertheless “has to go on.”
The shorts, having hung for years by a thread, finally fell, as movie
audiences plum meted through the 1950s, defecting to television, and as
theaters either closed or opted for double features. It had ta ken drastic
budget reductions to keep the s horts profitable, and then only barely , and
W ard Kimball said that the studio had increasingly used them as make-work
—as “somethin g to keep the animation and story departments afloat
between feature s; if W alt was having a problem with a new fea ture, you’d
mark time by picking up work on a short.” By 1957 the shor ts units had
been dismissed one by one, and when the storymen importuned W alt to let
them try their h and at live actio n, which was taking up a lar ger and lar ger
portion of the studio’ s resources, W alt was unsympathetic, saying that he
couldn’ t af ford to train them and that if they wanted to write live action,
they could do so at another studio.
He wasn’ t much more supportive of the animated features. W atching
footage from Snow White  one  day with W ilfred Jackson to find excerpts for
television, he said that “it didn’ t  seem possible to make a better picture than
Snow White, ” and he didn’ t seem inclined to try . All the animators knew