# Página 529  
that he expected a profit anyway , and he would be watching them closely ,
with the threat of freezing the loan.
And there was one more irony . Though he had been failing as a
commercial filmmaker , by the end of 1942 W alt Disney had become the
leader of government movie production. “This past year has be en not only
one of the most exciting,” he wr ote his uncle Robert at Christm astime, “but
one of the mos t exhausting I h ave ever experienced. Since last January ,
when we made the Income T ax  picture for the T reasury Department, we
have plu nged in to a type of work I never expected to touch.” The plunge
included nearly 300,000 feet of  film produced that year , up from a prewar
total of 30,000, which was why the shortcuts were so necessary . Over 75
percent of the s tudio’ s output was now tar geted for the government. W ith
the training films demonstrating the educational potential of motion
pictures, W alt was also increasingly recognized as, in Fortune ’ s words,
“one of the great teachers of all time.” But even as W alt put a gloss on this
renown and called it a great op portunity to “show what our m edium can
do,” it was a far , far cry from the great things he  had always wanted the
medium to do. “At times it seemed we had slipped over a parallel but
slightly altered universe” was how studio executive Harry T ytle put it,
“where the usual rules were changed or no longer applied.” T ytle was right.
They had changed.
VI
W alt was busy . He ended 1942 with a two-week trip to Mexico
accompanied by Lillian and twelve members of his staf f to research a
sequel to Saludos.  He bega n the new year with an other trip, this one east to
attend the premiere of Saludos  (which had been  retitled Saludos Amigos ), to
discuss the other films to be produced for the coordinator , and t o meet with
a Harva rd anthropology professor named Earnest A. Hoote n who had
written a book on Nazi racial theories that W alt was thinking of turning into
one of his propaganda films  for the coordinator . Though it was a
compilation of animated shorts mortised together with those ho me movies
that W al t had taken of South Am erica, and though its intended ef fect was as