# Página 547  
the war was over , we were like a bear coming out of hibernatio n. W e were
skinny and gaunt and we had no fat on our bones at all, and I remember the
years ’47, ’48  and ’49  wer e lost years for us.” W alt Di sney , however , didn’ t
have time for any more lost years. In his estimation, he had already lost four
years.
Of course, despite his person al warmth, Roy had usually been the
doomsayer and disciplinarian—in one animator ’ s words, “ the typical,
tightfisted, Mac hiavellian businessman.” He would even occasionally visit
the animators when W alt was aw ay and ur ge them to hold down costs. And
W alt had  always been resistant to these incursions, literally ordering Roy
back to his of fice whenever he t respassed on the creative side. But this was
not one of their ordinary disagreements. W alt called the ar gument “quite a
screamer” and “one of my bi g upsets.” Roy was confused, W alt later
concluded, and exhausted. Am ong other things, he’d been debilitated by
arthritis and, feeling generally o ut of sorts, had checked into the hospital to
have his appendix removed. He lacked ener gy and focus. “It seemed like
quite a chore to get the ball rol ling,” W alt observed, but he ins isted to his
brother that the studio couldn’ t  coast. “If you do,” W alt yelled, “you go
backwards. I said it’ s just a slow way of liquidating,” and he demanded that
they do anything to, in his words, “get some action.”
But Roy ’ s concerns were legitimate—and not the least of them  was his
brother . One of the chief reason s he resisted W alt’ s pleas and emphasized
fiscal accountability was W alt’ s own management style, which was
capricious, idiosyncratic, extravagant, and hopelessly inef ficient but that
W alt ha d justified on the basi s that creativity , not ef ficiency , was what
counted. Employees had always complained that W alt seldom provided
clear guidelines and had no real chain of command. “W alt had a way of
telling one person to go ahead and get what was needed, to do whatever was
necessary to complete the job without telling any of the other people who
would be involved in such a project,” animators Frank Thomas and Ollie
Johnston would  write. That led to supervisors “trying to solve new ,
unheard-of prob lems, run their departments ef ficiently , and still give W alt
what he wanted.” Others said it was always dif ficult to distinguish between
the time s when W alt was, in W ilfred Jackson’ s term, “just talking” to test