# Página 818  
our Florida project.” It was a joyous spasm of activity , and he said to
Harrison Price that between Mineral King and Disney W orld, he now had
“enough work to keep my or ganization busy for forty years!” That seemed
to be the point—to keep the company going.  
But despite the sur ge in work and the pleasure it clearly gave him, he was
not feeling well. For years he h ad suf fered with various ailments, nagging
ailments that chipped away at his health. He had kidney stones. His teeth
ached, s ending shafts of pain up his face so that his entire head throbbed
and forcing him at night to app ly hot compresses to relieve the  agony . He
had a sore elbow , for which he had received injections and X-ray therapy .
He had a chroni c sinus condition that required a weekly visit to the doctor .
He always seemed to be fightin g a cold and at least twice was diagnosed
with walking pneumonia. And h e waged a losing battle against weight gain,
so that where o nce he had been lean and hatchet-faced, then fleshy , as he
passed sixty he became paunchy . Embarking on one diet, he wrote Hayley
Mills, “I am in the process of losing my big, fat stomach.”
Most of all, he still ached from that old polo injury he had suf fered in the
1930s, w hen he had taken a spill from his horse; the cracked ve rtebra in his
neck had calcified over the ye ars, pinching his nerves and causing him
excruciating pain. On an overnight trip with him, Peter Ellenshaw recalled
that W alt lay awake all night in pain, rising frequently to go to the
washbasin to apply compresses to his neck. By early 1966 the calcification
had advanced, and W alt had beg un dragging his right leg and o ccasionally
listing as he wa lked. Even his secretary admitted “it got so bad that there
were tim es whe n you’d have s worn he had been drinking, b ut he never
drank during the day ,” meaning the workday . “He constantly complained of
this bad  hip,” Marc Davis said , calling himself “gimpy” and talking of
being “pooped.”  He would ride  his golf cart around the studio now , and at
the e nd of the day he would ret reat to Hazel Geor ge’ s of fice to  receive his
traction and infrared treatments while he sipped his scotch through a straw .
Concerned by how much alcoho l he seemed to be consuming, Geor ge told