# Página 60  
the r egular services. (W alt said that the Red Cross attracted those who were
too young, too old, or too incapacitated for the military .) Since they were
still sixt een, they applied under false names as the St. John broth ers, but the
ruse did  not work. They still nee ded their parents’ signatures to certify their
ages, and in any  case Maas’ s mother had found his grip with a pair of socks
in it, suspected something was  happening, and alerted Flora. After W alt
confessed, Elias refused to sign the papers. “If I did,” he said, “I might be
signing your death warrant.” Flora was no more eager to send her youngest
son to war than was her husb and, but W alt begged her and she finally
relented, signing  for both herself and Elias and saying that if she did not,
W alt would probably run of f a nyway . Flora evidently did not know that
W alt, at sixteen, was still too yo ung for the Ambulance Corps, so after his
mother h ad the certificate notari zed, he converted the last digit in 1901, his
birth year , to a zero, and on September 16 he enlisted.  
He thou ght of it not as war but as an adventure. He was assigned to Camp
Scott, the Red C ross’ s new training facility on Chicago’ s Sout h Side near
the U niversity of Chicago, on the grounds of what was once an  amusement
park and roller rink. The training called for a week of driving ambulances
and truc ks, another week in re pair shops learning how to dismantle and
assemble a car , a nd two more weeks of military drills before shipping out to
France. W alt had no sooner arrived at the camp than he w as writing
Beatrice’ s friend  V ir ginia Baker that he was having “a good tim e out here”
and had  met “lots of old friend  [ sic ] and made new ones all ready .” But
within days he contracted influ enza in an epidemic that would soon be
sweeping the globe and would eventually result in at least twenty million
deaths. Since hospitals were considered unsafe, W alt was  taken by
ambulance to his home to recuperate. By the time he recovered three weeks
later , his company had already  sailed to France. W alt returned to Camp
Scott on November 4, only to  be sent by train to Camp Kin g in South
Beach, C onnecticut, to await transport to France as part of Company A of
the Aut omotive and Mechanic al Section. While he was at Camp King,
bivouacked in an empty summer resort, Y e Olde Greenwich Inn, he