# Página 100  
Though in May W alt had assured distributors that Alice’ s W onderland
would be finished “very soon,” this was more wishful thinking. In addition
to ha ving to scra pe for financing, the month they began shooting they were
evicted from the McConahy Building and moved into new quarters above
the Isis Theater on the second floor of the W irthman Building  just up the
street. A lready in June W alt w as writing one distributor that he had not
completed the film as planned  due to “numerous delays an d backsets
[setbacks]” but that he fully exp ected to take a print with him to  New Y ork
in July . By this time many of t he staf f, including Iwwerks, who had been
paid onl y fitfully , had departed the company , and Pfeif fer had returned to
Chicago.
In the end there would not be money enough for a New Y ork trip. There
would not be money enough for anything, save finishing Alice’ s
W onderland,  a nd W alt wou nd up doing v irtually all of the animation
himself. “W e twice had to move during the night because we couldn’ t pay
the rent, ” Rudy Ising said. There  was not even enough money for food. “W e
didn’ t ev er have  three square me als a day ,” Carmen Maxwell recalled. “My
mom us ed to mail us a cake onc e in a while and that was really something.”
W alt and the others would take  meals at the Forest Inn Café on the first
floor of the McConahy Building where the owners, Jerry Raggo s and Louis
Katsis, extended them credit, and when the credit ran out, Nadine Simpson,
the s ecretary who was dating th e photographer Baron Missakia n across the
hall from Laugh-O-Gram, typed menus in exchange for their meals. W alt
paid his own bil l by taking pictu res of Raggos’ s baby . “When my credit ran
out I was tempted to go and ea t, order my meal and tell them I couldn’ t
pay ,” W alt remembered. “But I didn’ t have the nerve. I was so damn
hungry .” Instead, he lived on le ftovers from Missakian’ s photo shoots until
Raggos caught him scavenging  and decided to extend him credit once
again.
And if there was no money for food, there was no money to live either .
At the time he m ade Alice,  he was rooming in a two-story wooden frame
house at 3415 Charlotte Street  owned by Mrs. Gertrude Mc Bride, who
generously let W alt stay even af ter he had fallen twenty-five dollars behind
in th e re nt—he would repay her a decade later—but eventually  he left and