# Página 88  
W alt Disney , after scarcely more than two years in the business, was now
the head  of his very own anim ation studio. The go-getter seemed to have
arrived.  
W alt Disney had another mot ivation for starting a studio besides the
tenacious pursui t of animation a nd the fame and profit he was sure would
accrue f rom it. All this time, fro m his short stint at Pesmen-Ru bin through
his first year and a half at the Fi lm Ad Co., W alt had lived on the quiet tree-
lined street in hi s old two-level childhood house at 3028 Bellefontaine with
his b rothers Roy and Herbert, Herbert’ s wife, Louise, and their daughter ,
Dorothy , and later with Flora, Elias, and Ruth. It was comforting, but it
wasn’ t to last. S ince his return from the navy Roy had been beset with
nagging illnesse s. His doctor suggested he have his tonsils re moved, and
Herb recommen ded a doctor who of fered to perform the oper ation while
Roy was  on his lunch break so h e wouldn’ t have to miss work.  The doctor ,
however , turned  out to be a charlatan. Roy began hemorrhaging on the
street an d was rushed home by a coworker and then to the hos pital. At the
hospital an X-ray revealed a spot on his lung, which was judged to be
tuberculosis. Since it was determined that he could have contracted the
disease only while in the service, the V eterans Administration sent him in
October 1920 to a sanatorium in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and, when he
found the weather there too cold, to another facility in T ucson, Arizona.
Thinking that he had little time left, he decided to leave Arizona too and go
to California to spend his remaining days.
After his supporter , protector , an d confidant went west, W alt lost the rest
of h is fa mily too. Herbert applie d to the post of fice for a medica l transfer to
Portland, Orego n, where he sa id the family physician recommended he
move for the “m ilder climate.” (Elias’ s sister Josephine had already moved
there with her family , which  is probably why Herbert chose that
destination.) He , Louise, and Do rothy left Kansas City in July 1921. By the
fall Elia s, Flora , and Ruth, onc e again tired of the Kansas City winters,
decided to join them. They moved on Sunday , November 6. W alt saw them