# Página 758  
especially in his tastes and manner—he had come to have a much more
expansive sense  of who he was and what he could accomplish. W ith the
success of Disneyland, he saw h imself not just as an entertaine r or even an
amusement park operator but as a visionary planner who could  impose his
will on the environment as he ha d imposed it on the screen. Disneyland was
just a prototype for what he felt he could do all over the country . Less than a
month after visiting Marceline late in 1960 to dedicate the W alt Disney
School, he was meeting with a local entrepreneur named Rush  Johnson to
explore turning his childhood homestead into a model farm. When Johnson
asked how they would attract visitors, W alt said, “Y ou know , Rush, when I
introduce ‘Disne y’ s W onderful W orld of Color ’ on Sunday nigh t, I’d set the
cheek of my ass up there on the table and I’d say , ‘By the way , folks, when
you’re on vacation, go by my h ometown.’ What are you going to do with
all the damn people?” He also w anted to buy the old Disney family farm in
Ellis, Kansas, but Roy wouldn’ t let him.
One adv ertising executive propo sed building a chain of Disney child care
centers near lar ge shopping area s. W alt was interested, but onc e again Roy
and Card W alker dissuaded him . Another suggestion was a chai n of Disney
Kiddielands across the country , and W alt Disney Productions did buy a one-
third interest in the Arrow Development Company , which had
manufactured m any of the rides for Disneyland, but the Kidd ieland idea
expired too. WED even hired a development consultant who was
investigating relocating one of the Disneyland trains to Newport Beach,
California, and building a convention center in Anaheim near t he park. As
early as 1958, W alt even regarded Smoke T ree as a potential development
site for a new go lf course, bowling alley , restaurant, and cocktail lounge, all
surrounding a square with tourist shops and all to be financed by Smoke
T ree under W alt’ s personal supervision. He was also weighing a motel and a
twelve-hundred-car mobile home “ranch” there. But after years of
vacillation—the Palm Springs city council first rejected the plan, then
reversed itself—W alt lost interest.
If he  had  lost interest in developing Smoke T ree, he hadn’ t lost his fervor
for crea ting some kind of bowling-recreation complex under the Disney
aegis, an d he invested in a spo rts center outside Denver that i ncluded not