# Página 485  
advised Babbitt that he was being terminated for union activities and had to
leave th e studio  immediately . Babbitt asked the chief if he could drive his
car up to the Animation Buildin g entrance so he could load his ef fects. By
the t ime he arrived, a small group had collected there and help ed him take
his belo ngings to the car . By the time they finished, an hour l ater , several
hundred employees had gathere d, shouting that they would see  him on the
picket line the next morning.
II
“Strike—6:00 AM—today” read the first entry in W alt Disney’ s desk diary
on May 28, though with the extension the strike actually began the next day .
The atmosphere  that morning w as both festive and festering. So rrell had the
picketers crowdi ng the gate while loudspeakers blasted music and messages
at the employees driving throug h. W ard Kimball, who kept a diary , wrote,
“Cars stopped all the way alon g Buena V ista Street,” which fronted the
studio. “ The guys were pouring their individual speeches into the ears of
those on the fence.” Kimball was struck by the “magnitude of it all.” As one
might h ave expected from animators, the picket signs were colorful. One
striker sat on a knoll in a smoc k and beret and painted the scene. Others
sang and  yelled.  As Kimball ent ered the gate, Babbitt collared h im and told
him that the SC G had placed su pervising animators like Kimb all under its
jurisdiction. In entering the studio, he was defying the union.
As W alt himself entered the gates that morning, easing his way through
the throng in his Packard and  genially waving to the strik ers, Babbitt
grabbed a megaphone from acto r John Garfield, who was on the picket line
to su pport the s trike, and yelled, “W alt Disney , you should be ashamed of
yourself!” Then , as Babbitt tol d it, he turned to the crowd a nd shouted,
“Ther e he is, the man who believes in br other hood for eve rybody but
himself!”  Wh en t he crow d cheered, W alt bolted from the car and took of f
after Ba bbitt until he was restrained. W alt was much more sanguine behind
the stud io’ s gates. Kimball was taking lunch in the women’ s cafeteria and
saw W alt there, beaming. Later that afternoon he called several of the
nonstriking animators and storymen to his of fice. Blow-ups of p hotographs