# Página 576  
called for in his famous 1941 Life  e ssay , “The A merican Centur y .” In
Luce’ s v iew , the nation had to change its sense of itself as it shouldered new
global obligations. It had to become the custodian to the world.
W alt Disney , who represented A merica to much of the world, had entered
the w ar as one of the nation’ s m ost popular entertainers, “the guy we brag
about,” as Billy Rose had said, not only for the quality of his work but also
for the seemingly naïve and unpretentious way he produced it—that
appealing American primitivism of W alt’ s. Despite the studio’ s ongoing
problems, W alt had emer ged from the war as something else: a corporate
bur gher and the embodiment of the new imposing, powerful America,
helping to transmit its values around the globe or , as historian Jackson
Lears w ould late r put it, a “central figure in the corporate reclamation of the
national mythology , the redefin ition of the American W ay of Life from a
vague populism to an equally murky notion of free enterprise.”
As Lear s indica ted, it was dif fi cult to put one’ s finger on exactly what
constituted the change, but like the country , W alt Disney now seemed
somehow hege monic, which was another reason he lost favor with
intellectuals and  critics. Even hi s employees saw it. “If no one [else] was in
the room , if you were one-on -one with W alt,” W ard Kimball recalled,
“things were a l ot more agreeable. He didn’ t feel he had to dem onstrate his
position, and you could talk to h im…. But when you got into a room full of
people, he was a dif ferent man.” In a room full of people he was no longer a
folksy outsider char ged with making people laugh or cry . He wore his
responsibility he avily . The war a nd the war films had moved him inside the
Establishment.
He e ven looked dif ferent. The boyish young W alt Disney had dressed
casually and flamboyantly , often  with a scarf or a handkerchief around his
neck rather than a tie and with a sweater rather than a suit or s ports jacket
and ofte n with a floppy fedora. One reporter writing in 1939 described a
T yrolean jacket to which W alt had become “addicted”—pu rple on the
outside, red satin on the inside, with silver buttons the size of half-dollars.
“It’ s the  sort of thing that wou ld overwhelm a lesser man,” the reporter
observed, “but he wears it gracefully ,” proud of “the sensation it creates.”