# Página 553  
ready on ce again  to dispense wi th the ever -imperiled shorts when the studio
finished those it was contractually obligated to provide over the next two
years, until the new management team imposed draconian ef ficiencies that
brought down the price, but even then W alt said that the stud io couldn’ t
maintain quality , and he lost interest. ( Destino  would be among the
casualties.) The studio produce d fewer Mickey Mouse cartoons, only two
during the war , now that Mickey had been practically sanitized out of
existence, and W alt absolutely hated the Goofy cartoons, threatening
constantly to terminate them be fore relenting, lar gely to provide work for
his animators—yet another example of W alt’ s vacillation under the new
financial exigencies. The only surviving star was the sputtering, hot-
tempered Donald Duck, and even he needed to be revitalized, as he was
when he was gi ven two new fo ils, a pair of pesky chipmunks named Chip
and Dale, who had first appeared in a 1943 Pluto cartoon.
The decline in t he quality of the  shorts, however , was only sym ptomatic
of a  general decline in the quality of animation at the studio a fter the war
had enforced its limits. W ith no features on which to apply the old
animation techniques, the anim ators’ skills had withered. “[G]radually
people for got how things had been done,” Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston
would later write. Even W alt’ s precious, once-innovative equipment, they
said, “w as all rusting on the ba ck lot, and newcomers walking around the
lot at noon wo ndered why anyone would keep junk like that around.”
Eventually , it was scrapped in favor of newer machinery .
What was worse, the old animators  had  wit hered to o. Between June 1945
and July  1946 fifty-three of them left the company for various r easons, and
the studio continued the proce ss, as one memo put it, “of w eeding out
mar ginal talent” and even a “hi gher standard of people should production
reasons require this decision.” S everal of the casualties had once been stars
of the studio. Fred Moore had been the “Chopin” of animators, according to
his o netime assistant, Frank Th omas. He could pour his “pure  emotions”
onto the  paper , and everyone admired the appealing style of his drawings,
which had been the standard for the Disney style. In the rig ht mood he
would c heerfully draw picture after picture, humming while he worked at
his board. But Thomas also  noted that Moore was w racked by