# Página 330  
this time,” T ytla admitted to a class at the time, and T ytla had designed  the
dwarfs with Moore.
Increasingly desperate, the animators tried impasting quirks onto the
dwarfs to individualize them—“[W]e have got to have characteristics for
each dwarf so that we can get a hold of them, and every time we have that
fellow , we will pull that characteristic,” said Dave Hand at one meeting—
and after weeks of fruitless debate, they hired a real-life dwarf named Major
Geor ge and two midgets named Erny and T om to perform on film to
suggest some poses, but W alt was unimpressed. “T o me, Erny , T om and
Major Geor ge are not very cute,” W alt wrote his stymied staf f. “I can’ t help
but feel  sorry for them. I believe, of course, that certain ch aracteristics
should be taken from these guys , but restricted, so that their actions are not
caused by deformities.” Of his own dwarfs, he said, “I can’ t help but feel
that these guys are imaginary . T hey are creatures of the imagi nation.” As
the animators struggled to find signature behaviors, Art Babbitt
recommended th ey eschew the “superficial mannerism.” “Y ou  have to go
deeper than that,” he said, soun ding very much like W alt. “Y ou have to go
inside, h ow he feels.” W alt agreed. What he really wanted was what he
always w anted: personality-driven animation. “I think you have to know
these fe llows definitely before you can draw them,” he now advised the
animators.
But it was no simpler to find a personality than it was to invent little
habits or tics. T rying to work from the inside out, the anim ators began
imagining real-l ife analogues who seemed to capture the dwarfs: actor Roy
Atwell for Doc, whom the stu dio had already selected to “voice” that
character in the film (“He is, like Doc, a windbag type,” W alt wrote. “He
loves to talk o f the good old  days when…”), Otis Harlan for Happy
(“Harlan has a characteristic of listening with eagerness and a nticipation.
His face seems to become suddenly very blank when spoken to…. This is
contrasted by a l ighting up in his face as soon as he registers what has been
said.”), black comic actor Ste pin Fetchit for Sneezy , W ill Rogers for
Bashful, and at W alt’ s sugges tion the baby-faced silent film comedian
Harry Langdon  for Dopey . T o break the logjam, at one meeting that
December Fred Moore got up a nd, working from notes that P erce Pearce