# Página 670  
As t he A BC board balked, time was running out for W alt Dis ney if he
were to have an y hope of openi ng the park in 1955, as he had planned. He
not only  needed  a deal, he needed one quickly . NBC had already passed on
the proposal, but as late as February 1954, while ABC stalled, W alt and Roy
had scheduled an appointment  with CBS chief W illiam S. Paley . Paley
stood them up, due, he said, “ to the pressure of some vitall y important
negotiations we were conducting.” Apparently insulted, the Disneys never
rescheduled. Meanwhile Goldenson at ABC was just as despera te as Disney
to fo r ge an allia nce, especially since the other film studios he w as courting
were p roving reluctant to enter television. T o keep the lines of
communication open, ABC executives continued to meet with Disney
representatives about various programs. “They see tremendous tie-in values
between Disney and ABC,” Nat W inecof f and Dick Irvine wrot e W alt after
conferring with Goldenson, ABC president Robert Ki ntner , and
programming he ad Robert W eitman in New Y ork. “Leonard Goldenson was
most em phatic t hat we convey to you that they are ‘most inte rested’ and
want to make a deal,” and Goldenson suggested they stay in “close contact”
with ABC’ s W est Coast representative.
But Goldenson did more than c onvey professions of interest. He was so
eager to close a  deal before the  new fall television season that, as he later
told it, he sent two of his execu tives to T exas to meet with a man named
Karl Ho blitzelle, who owned several theater circuits and with whom
Goldenson had worked at Unite d Paramount Theater before buying ABC.
Goldenson knew that Hoblitzelle had struck oil and gone into banking, and
now Goldenson asked if he might give ABC a loan to back Disney—
money , Goldenson said, he couldn’ t get from the New Y ork banks, which
had doubts about the park. Hoblitzelle agreed to underwrite $5 million, and
after several days of fierce nego tiations between Roy and Kintner , the deal
was con cluded a nd approved by both boards on April 2, 1954. ABC would
have its Disney program. W alt Disney would have his money for
Disneyland. Or , as W alt would later joke, “ABC needed the television show
so damned bad, they bought the amusement park.”
The park  didn’ t come cheap. Earlier in the year W alt had aske d SRI for
an estim ate of its cost. Their figure was $5.25 million—$750,00 0* of which