# Página 477  
employees, including those who shared his politics. Even Roy said that after
Snow White  everyone took to calling the bald-pated Lessing “Dopey .”
Whatever Lessing’ s influence, the Disneys themselves had never looked
kindly o n union s. For all his alleged socialism, Elias Disney h ad told his
children a story about being attacked by union or ganizers when he was
working on a co nstruction site; and W alt certainly hated the idea of anyone
trying to intimidate him, especially his own employees. But whatever
antagonism the Disneys may hav e felt was further fueled by Lessing, whom
they had appointed to advise Babbitt back in 1937 on the formation of the
federation. “A more unwise choice could not have been made,” animator
Shamus Culhane would write. “During the preliminary seminars about
unionism, Lessi ng’ s approach was too slick, too facile, and to o arrogant.
When some employee had the  temerity to get up and ask a question,
Lessing, while listening, would roll his eyes up toward heaven, in the age-
old gesture of w eary patience with blatant stupidity .” As Culh ane saw it,
Lessing only fomented hostility  to the very company union he was char ged
with or ganizing.
Over the next m onth Babbitt defected and joined Hilberman in helping
or ganize the animators under the Cartoonists Guild. (He said he  was moved
to do so when one of the inkers  at the studio fainted because she couldn’ t
af ford to  buy lunch.) At an or ganizing meeting at the Roos evelt Hotel,
Sorrell delivered an impassioned speech, promising to “[s]queeze Disney’ s
balls ’ til he screams.” Meanwhile the old federation, with W alt and
Lessing’ s blessings, held an open meeting on January 28, 1 941, at the
Abraham Lincol n School, three blocks north of the studio, to di scuss a plan
under w hich it would serve as t he bar gaining agent for the wo rkers, using
an impartial chairman with an advisory board composed of two
representatives e ach from labor and management to settle disputes. (Exactly
how the chairman was to be selected wasn’ t specified.) A few d ays later the
SCG ch ar ged the studio with sp onsoring a company union. W alt retaliated
by p osting a bu lletin on February 6 forbidding employees to  engage in
union activity on company time or on company property .