# Página 112  
W alt met Roy on October 16 at Uncle Robert’ s house on Kingswell A venue
in a quie t residential section of Hollywood, part of the plan was to ask their
well-heeled uncl e for a loan. Since Robert had encouraged W al t to come to
Los An geles, the brothers assumed that getting the money would be
something of a formality . But their uncle balked. W alt’ s beloved Aunt
Mar garet, his advocate, had died of pneumonia, and Robert ha d married a
much y ounger woman—Ruth Disney said that he had date d both the
woman and her mother , and there was a “toss-up” over which would get
him—who was pregnant at the time W alt requested the loan, which seemed
to put Uncle Ro bert in a less-th an-generous mood. Moreover , W alt and his
uncle, who was as stubborn and disputatious as Elias, had gotten  into a silly
ar gument over whether W alt’ s train west had passed through T opeka, as
Uncle Robert insisted it had, or had not, as W alt insisted. Even after
Robert’ s new wife, Charlotte, called the railroad and proved W alt right,
Robert bristled. “He demanded a lot of respect and didn’ t think I gave it to
him,” W alt remarked.
Finally , there was the matter o f a sixty-dollar loan W alt had received
from his  brothe r Ray . W alt still  owed him the money when, the previous
Christmas, Roy wrote from Ca lifornia suggesting the brothers  pitch in to
buy thei r mothe r a vacuum cle aner and agreeing to kick in W alt’ s share
since W alt was broke at the tim e, if W alt would collect Ray’ s share. Ray
refused to contribute, saying tha t W alt should cover the cost out of what he
owed. B y the time W alt reached Los Angeles, Uncle Robert had heard that
W alt ha d welshed on his debt and did not think his nephew was a good
credit risk. But W alt, who was not about to lose his opportunity with
W inkler over petty family squab bles and who did not want to be  considered
a failure  like his father , was pe rsistent and nothing if not ingr atiating. By
November Uncle Robert had softened and loaned W alt $200 in mid-month,
another $150 ten days later , another $75 early in December , and yet another
$75 on Decemb er 14, for a total of $500, albeit at 8 percent interest, all of
which W alt repaid the very d ay he received his second payment from
W inkler early in January . The Disney brothers were also begging money
from their friends and other rela tives. Even before receiving the of fer from
W inkler , W alt had gotten a $75 loan from Carl Stalling, the or ganist at the
Isis The ater in Kansas City , and received $200 more from him a fter signing