# Página 413  
outside, and the neighbor administered artificial respiration. Elias revived.
Flora di d not. She died of carbon monoxide poisoning from th e defective
heater; a lid on the air intake had slipped, recirculating the exhaust into the
house.
It m ay have been the most shattering moment of W alt Disn ey’ s life.
Though he seldom exhibited emotion outside the studi o, he was
inconsolable—a misery deepened no doubt by the fact that she had died in
the new home W alt had given  her , and by the culpability of his own
workmen. (A report on the furnace ordered by Roy determin ed that the
“installation of the furnace show ed either a complete lack of knowledge of
the r equirements  of the furnace or a flagrant disregard of these c onditions if
they wer e know n.”) When his p arents had arrived in Los Angel es, they had
only wa nted to see the vast Fore st Lawn Cemetery , so W alt had let them of f
at the gate in th e morning and returned later in the day to pic k them up.
Now W alt and Roy decided to bury their mother there. “Y ou should have
seen tho se two brothers,” recalled the Reverend Glenn Puder , the husband
of H erbert’ s daughter Dorothy a nd the man who of ficiated at the funeral. In
the following months they reg ularly visited their mother ’ s gravesite, but
W alt never spoke of her death  to anyone thereafter . When, years later ,
Sharon asked him where her g randparents were buried, W alt snapped, “I
don’ t want to talk about it.”
III
He didn’ t have time to be immobilized by grief. W ith the Bambi  crew
crawling ahead at Seward Street, that fall W alt began to refocus on
Pinocchio —once again analyzing scenes, assigning animation, recordin g
voices, r eviewing Leica reels, and most of all, constructing a new story arc.
T o solve  the problem of Pinocc hio’ s moral aimlessness, the emphasis and
identification ha d shifted to the cricket—“Jiminy ,” as he was no w named—
as a mor al agent  and conscience. During the hiatus that spring a nd summer
Jiminy’ s role had been substantially expanded, and the singer -comedian
Clif f Edwards had been hired  to voice him.* Un like for Bambi,  W alt