# Página 158  
W alt rec ognized the magnitude of the calamity . Even before the session
he h ad b een anx ious and distraught. He hated New Y ork; hated being away
from home; hated having to tal k up people he barely knew , after years of
having e njoyed doing so; hated not having anyone to provide counsel; hated
the lone ly nights; even hated Steamboat W illie,  which he was now sick of
watching and whose print he thought was “lousy .” He was so busy that he
often for got to eat and had lost ten pounds, and he was so rest less that he
could no t get to sleep before tw o or three in the morning. T o m ake matters
worse, he had been walking the city so much in a new pair of shoes that he
had developed a painful absce ss on his big toe, for which the doctor
prescribed a wet dressing eve ry hour . All of this was on top of the
disastrous record ing session. “If you knew the entire situation as I do,” he
wrote Roy and Ub with uncharacteristic gloom, “I feel sure you wouldn’ t be
able to Sleep or Eat…. I can’ t.”
Now they needed another sessio n. Powers, obviously looking to the long-
term rew ards of  having W alt se ll his cartoon series and use the Cinephone
process, had agreed to foot the bill for the technical expenses, and
Edouarde, presumably embarrassed, had of fered to try again, but W alt still
had to pay for the musicians. Unfortunately he had virtually ex hausted the
studio’ s money , which forced hi m to hector Roy to do something the studio
had heretofore refrained from doing: apply for a bank loan. “GET AS
LARGE A LOAN AS POSSIBLE,”  W a lt wired Roy a week after the
botched session. “DON’T THINK  THIR TY FIVE HUNDRED ENOUGH
TR Y FOR MORE OUR  FUTURE DEPENDS ON FIRST PICTURE
THEREFORE AM NOT SP ARING EXPENSE T O MAKE IT GOOD.”
T wo day s later , again both cheerleading and dunning, he wrote Roy that this
is “Old Man Opportunity rappin g at our door” and ur ged him to “slap as big
a mortgage on everything we got and let’ s go after this thing in the right
manner .”
The gro up assembled for the second session at ten o’clock on the
morning of September 30. Thi s time, however , W alt had devised a new
system to crack the problem of synchronization, which had been vexing not
only the Disneys but all the ani mation producers. He had a ball printed on
both the sound track and the film that rose and fell to the accent of the beat,