# Página 480  
Though his intention had obviously been to defuse the situation by
rallying the troops, W alt instead exacerbated it by seeming to underscore
the v ery faults h is employees had discovered in him. Many of them found
his speech a “so b story ,” in W a rd Kimball’ s words, and were u npersuaded
by W alt’ s invocation of crisis. O ne said he had treated them as if he were
the “benevolent and understanding father” and they were “wayward sons”
and clai med tha t some in the audience even booed him. As the left-wing
magazine The Nation  later put it, “This speech recruited more members for
the Screen Cartoonists Guild than a year of campaigning.”
If s o, W alt se emed oblivious, thinking he had tamped down his
employees’ dissatisfaction. The very next day he met with the  production
control manager  Herb Lamb to discuss how they might contain expenses by
breaking down the cost of every department in the studio and s etting strict
budget controls so that everyone would know exactly what tar gets he had to
hit to stay profitable. Those who did hit the tar gets would g et bonuses.
“When the fellows see that th is economy is bringing them increases in
salaries, it will go over the wh ole plant and then you will see something
happen,” W alt told Lamb. And he recommended that they post a huge sign
in front of the st udio theater—W alt of fered to pay for it persona lly—listing
each dep artment and the footage it delivered per day so everyone would
know which was falling behind. But even W alt now realized that he was
foundering. “I became all confu sed,” he later confessed of his desperation.
“I di dn’ t know w here I was. I had a big staf f. I hated to lay of f anybody . I
tried to hold on to ’em. I tried to think of dif ferent ways. The war was not
here yet. But they were still drafting. Some of my boys had to go. It was a
terrible period.”
It be came more terrible as the e mployees began to revolt over t he cracks
in the utopia W alt had tried so h ard to maintain. “W e were disappointed in
him,” said one animator , “in the promise of the big happy studio where
everyone would be taken care of—that was simply not working out in
reality .” W riting  just days after his speech, the Communist pap er the Daily
W orker  called W alt “alm ost a pathetic character” and said his labor rela tions
were a fairy tale  based on W alt’ s image as an ordinary fellow , though the
employees were being ground down by a system that sped up work. One