# Página 335  
The staf f began recording the songs in January 1936 and continued into
1937, bu t W alt, who attended many of these sessions, was no m ore satisfied
with the  music than he had been  with the animation. As late as s pring 1937,
he w as s till instructing his staf f how he wanted the dwarfs to sing (“Bashful
could half talk and half sing. Y ou can bring their personalities in there”),
still complaining that one track lacked rhythm, and still working on new
verses for “The Silly Song,” ev en though the film was then less than six
months from its completion dat e. In fact, he had sample verses played for
the staf f one afternoon and asked them to vote for their six favorites. (W alt
even dr agooned Lillian into voting.) But for all his refining and
procrastinating in hopes of breaking new ground, he continued to be
disappointed tha t the songs were  not fully integrated into the film. “It’ s still
that infl uence from the musicals they have been doing for years,” W alt
grumbled after reviewing a sequence. “Really we should set a new pattern. I
hope we can do  it in Bambi…a new way to use music; weav e it into the
story so somebody doesn’ t just bust [ sic ] into song.”
This was always the injunctio n. It had to be dif ferent, better in all
respects, and while W alt was se eking a way to make Snow White  musically
distinctive, he was also pressing to make it visually distinctive, not only in
the s tyle of its animation but in its palette too. W alt had worked  for years to
improve the colors on his cartoons. Though after much trial and error he
used water opaque paints manuf actured by the F . R. Miller Paint Company ,
inkers a nd painters complained of mildew , streaking, tackine ss, lack of
intensity , lumpiness, limited ran ge, and staining. W alt sought to devise a
solution. Eventually the studio developed its own binder , which held the
paint to gether , w ith a gum ara bic base that was even rewetta ble so that
painters could correct mistakes. The studio also ground all of it s own paint
with a set of disk mills that had once been used to grind f ood, and it
installed a spectraphotometer , one of only twenty in the world at the time, to
measure colors exactly . By one  count the Disney painting dep artment had
twelve hundred distinct pigm ents. Knowing that T echnicol or couldn’ t
reproduce them exactly , W alt had a lar ge chart on the wall, some six or
seven feet high, showing how the colors would register on the screen.