# Página 300  
more the re, because they lack c ertain fundamental grown up ideas without
which  they are never  going to be able to make really first class pictures.” He
added, “ Believe it or not, I’d prefer to work harder and make le ss money , if
I knew my ef forts were going into pictures that were carefully planned and
properly made.”
Harboring the same sentiment, several animators throughout 1932, 1933,
and 1934 decamped for the D isney studio, and W alt, with Snow White
obviously in mind, welcomed t hem. One of eight children gro wing up in
Nebraska and Iowa to an impoverished father , Art Babbitt had headed for
New Y o rk as a teenager with the intention of working his w ay through
Columbia Unive rsity and becoming a psychiatrist, but after six weeks of
sleeping under a church stairwell and scavenging food from garbage pails,
he lande d a job at an advertisi ng agency , became a freelance artist, and
eventually woun d up at the Paul T erry animation studio. When he saw The
Skeleton Dance,  he had a revelat ion: “I knew tha t was the place I wanted to
work.” He quit T erry , left for California, and went directly to the Disney
studio. W hen he  couldn’ t get an  appointment with W alt, he pa inted him a
giant letter—twenty by twenty-four feet—in which he requested an
interview and had it sent special delivery . W alt capitulated, gra nted him an
audience, and then hired him a few days later .
This kin d of quest to work at th e Disney studio would become a familiar
story among dissatisfied animato rs, prompting a kind of hegira to Hyperion.
Dick Huemer , who had quit high school to go to the Art Students League
and then quit the Art Students League to join the Raoul Bar ré studio in
animation’ s early days, was working for Charlie Mintz when Mintz
instituted a pay cut. Huemer im mediately headed for California  and joined
Disney i n 1933, though he wou ld be earning roughly half of what he made
from M intz. Gri m Natwick had been courted by Roy and W alt after W alt
saw a scene that Natwick had drawn for the Fleischers of Betty Boop
climbing aboard a moving train. Natwick declined the invitation and
eventually went to work for Ub Iwerks’ s new studio in 1931 “because the
rumor in  the East was that the genius of the [Disney studio] w as Iwerks.”
Three y ears later , like so man y animators, he was making overtures to
Disney , though it was said that W alt would never hire anyone who had