# Página 564  
were in a carto on. These were clever , snappily paced animat ions full of
cruelty , violence, and antisocial behavior , animations in which characters
were dim-witted like Fudd, who took the obliviousness of Goof y to another
level, or unmanageably wacky like Daf fy Duck, who was a ma nic version
of D onald Duck, or so overwhe lmingly inef fectual like Porky Pig that he
parodied the anodyne Mickey M ouse, or wickedly smart like B ugs Bunny
with his trademark “What’ s up,  Doc?” who had been designed  by Disney
expatriate Charl es Thorson after a rabbit in The T ortoise and the Har e  but
who had a mean  streak and a quick mind that no Disney charac ter had ever
had.* And  wh ile Disn ey’ s animations  by design seemed to be the prod uct of
some invisible force, which was, after all, the point of realism, in the
W arner Bros. cartoons the directors’ sensibility was nakedly evident,
manipulating the action and spinning the gags. In ef fect, it was t he return of
the o ld a nimator ’ s hand that W alt Disney had banished long ago, only now
it was the animator ’ s mind one saw at work.
W atching these  cartoons with their wordplay and puns, their wise-
cracking or tongue-tied characters, their adult acceptance of lust, their
occasional Pirandellian twists, their satirical digs, their vicio us wit, and
their lun atic frenzy , the Disney animators were the envious ones. Speaking
of their competitors, Jack Kinney admitted that “many of us wished we had
the freedom they had” and applauded their “funny pictures—uninhibited,
fresh, no t worke d over too much , as happened sometimes at Dis ney’ s at that
time.” D ick Hue mer cracked, “It was like admiring the kind of dame that
you cou ldn’ t introduce to your mother .” Disney storyman Leo Salkin was
more pr ecise, saying how he an d fellow staf f member Milt Schaf fer were
“jealous of how funny the W ar ner Brothers cartoons were just before the
war . W e thought: ‘All this personality stuf f isn’ t really funny . It’ s cute and
people kind of chuckle at it, but W arners cartoons get laughs. ’” In a reversal
of the typical artistic flow , Disney did try appropriating some of the
W arners spirit in cartoons like Saludos Amigos  and The Thr ee Caballer os,
where Donald Duck sometimes  seemed to have been possesse d by Daf fy ,
and in doing so Disney did adva nce the cause of surrealistic an imation, but
it m eant trying t o deconstruct what the studio had spent more than a decade
carefully constru cting, and they hadn’ t the skill or the heart fo r it. Disney