# Página 525  
fantasy , which was pretty much the magic element. Mickey Mouse and
Donald Duck lived in a beautiful escape land, where they flew through the
air , swam  under  water , died a thousand deaths, and lived to see  the end of
each pic ture.” In  Bambi  the animals “behave just as Hollywood thinks we
do,” whi ch makes the film “old stuf f and boring.” In short, critics found that
in attem pting to  perfect the wo rld on screen, W alt had tamed  the rough,
subversive ener g y of the earlier  cartoons and forsaken the ver y reason to
have an imations in the first pl ace—because they challenged the laws of
reality—though what these criti cs seemed to miss was that W alt’ s animated
realism was every bit as much a n exercise of control as his wilder and more
“imaginative” animations, and that control was the objective.
The lar ger problem with Bambi  ma y have been  a cultural dis sonance
between the film and its audience. On the one hand, while citi zens around
the world professed to want esc ape from the gravity of war , they seemed to
think that animation was now juvenile and inappropriate, which clearly
accounted for some of the antipathy in the Gallup survey . Cartoons had
boosted morale and provided diversion during the Depression, when spirits
needed t o be raised and when an imations seemed a correlative for a plucky
nation under duress and trying to fight back. W ar provided an altogether
dif ferent and far more dif ficult trial—one for which the buoyancy of
animation seem ed insuf ficient . On the other hand, the realism and
seriousness of Bambi  w ere not the sor t of qualities tha t audiences seemed to
desire at  a time when everyone lived within harsh reality and seriousness.
Y oung D iane herself complaine d to her father that Bambi’ s mother needn’ t
have die d, and when W alt answered that he was only following the book,
Diane pr otested that he had taken other liberties and that in any case he was
W alt Disney  and he could do anything he wanted. But W alt hadn’ t wanted to
lighten t he dram a. “Life is comp osed of lights and shadows,” he  would later
say , “and we would be untruthful, insincere, and saccharine if we tried to
pretend there were no shadow s.” In taking that position i n wartime,
however , W alt Disney , who had  once strummed the psychic chords of the
entire world, was now out of tune.
W ith the lukewarm critical reception to Bambi,  the only source of
ef fective public ity for the film was an attack from anoth er quarter .