# Página 263  
that snak ed up into the Hollywood hills, and began constructing  a $50,000,
twelve-room French Norman–style home there. “W e had been  living in a
little pla ce wher e I couldn’ t tur n around,” W alt told an interv iewer , “so I
made the  architect add three or four yards to every room in the house.” W alt
admitted it was a rush job, ro ughly two months from start to finish—
obviously racing against the baby’ s birth.
And then  Lillian suf fered another miscarriage. When, late in the  spring of
1933, w ith the Disneys in their new and spacious home, they learned that
Lillian was pregnant yet again, their mood was cautious. Only gradually as
summer wore on did they allow  themselves some elation. “Lilly has been
feeling fine and having no trouble at all,” W alt wrote his mother that
September . “In fact she is so healthy that she has been worrie d about it.”
Lillian wanted a girl, W alt said , because “she seems to feel that she could
get more pleasure out of dressing a little girl than boy . Personally , I don’ t
care, just as long as we do not get disappointed again.” As the expected
December birth date approache d, W alt prepared. He had fixed up a lar ge
nursery with a bassinet and pink and blue decorations, “tinies ” he called
them, bought a h orse for the child in anticipation, and now just awaited the
arrival. “Really ,  it’ s quite a strange atmosphere for me,” he wrote Flora
again. “I can’ t c onceive of anything belonging to us. It seems all right for
somebody else to have those thin gs around, but not for us. I pres ume I’ll get
used to it, and I suppose I’ll be a s bad a parent as anybody else. I’ve made a
lot of vows that my kid won’ t be spoiled, but I doubt it—it may turn out to
be the most spoiled brat in the country .”
After th e kidnapping and murder of aviator Charles Lindber gh’ s infant
son the year before, W alt hope d to keep the birth as quiet as possible. It
didn’ t w ork out that way . He was in the act of receiving an award from
Par ents  magazine for Mickey Mouse at a luncheon at the studio  on
December 18 before seventy-fi ve members of the press, when someone
interrupted and whispered to h im. “Thank you,” he told the magazine’ s
representative. “ This is the big gest moment of my life. Y ou’ ll pardon, I
hope, if I hurry away and show this beautiful award to my w ife and…”
Before finishing , W alt grabbed his coat and bolted, leaving the toastmaster ,
Dr . Rufus von KleinSmid, p resident of the University of Southern