# Página 108  
over it, to add prestige and keep the name Pantages before his theatre
patrons.” The man dismissed W alt, saying that they were not interested, but
Pantages happened to have overheard the conversation, emer ged from his
inner sanctum, and said he would like to see a reel. W alt headed back to
Uncle R obert’ s house, where he was staying, and began to animate a
sample.
And the re was another glimmer of hope. Even before leaving Kansas
City , W alt had been sending dozens of letters soliciting distributors for Alice
with his  promise of having “jus t discovered something new and clever in
animated cartoons!” and receiving polite rejections when he received
anything at all. B ut among those to whom he had written while he was still
in K ansas City trying to stave of f bankruptcy was an unusua l distributor
named Mar garet W inkler—unusual because she was the firs t and only
female film distributor in the country . An immigrant from Budapest,
Hungary , W inkler was a petite, round-faced, plain, and pleasant-looking
young woman—she was twenty-eight—but her appearance belied what her
son would call a feral ener gy , a quick mind, and a short temper . She had
been the  secreta ry to Harry W ar ner of the W arner Bros. film company , who
was stat ioned in  New Y ork, tho ugh she was ambitious enough to use her
position to travel to film con ventions on the W est Coast and make
connections. By one account, Pat Sullivan, the creator of Felix the Cat, had
approached Har ry W arner in 1921 to distribute his Felix car toon series,
which had recently been droppe d by Paramount. W arner demurred, but he
encouraged his secretary to explore the of fer . She and Sulliv an signed a
contract in December . “I think the industry is full of wonderful possibilities
for an ambitious woman,” she  told Exhibitor ’ s Herald,  sho rtly after the
signing, “and there is no reason why she shouldn’ t be able to conduct
business as well as the men.”
Mar garet W inkler did. By the time W alt contacted her in May 1923, she
was also representing the Out of the Inkwell series devised by Max and
Dave Fleischer , in which Koko the Clown escapes his inkwell into a real,
which is to say  photographic, world; between Felix and Inkw ell she had
become one of the leading animation distributors in America. But at the
time W alt Disney wrote her ,  trouble was brewing for W inkler . The