# Página 73  
But despite its promising start, neither partner seemed to think of
Iwwerks-Disney as a long-term proposition. W alt was still restless and
Iwwerks still nervous about the uncertainty of running his own business.
For his part, W alt had not given up his dream of drawing his own comic
strip. Ho ping to impress some p rospective employer , he would bring strips
he had drawn to the printers and have “cuts” made of them in the empty
spaces o f his client’ s plates, then print the strips on newspaper stock and
surround them with news stories to make it look as if the y had been
published. It was a sign of the partners’ wavering commitmen t that when
Iwwerks spotted  a want ad in th e Star  la te in January seeking an artist for
the K ansas City Slide Co., he re commended that W alt pursue the job. W alt
thought the Slide Co., which pr oduced promotional slides show n in movie
theaters before the feature, might hire Iwwerks-Disney as a subcontractor ,
but when he brought his sample s and made the suggestion, he was told that
they wanted a full-time employee. Ubbe then advised W alt to take the
position, which paid thirty-five dollars a week, since the ad called for a
cartoonist. They agreed that Ubbe would continue to run their shop.
The Kansas City Slide Co., wh ich W alt joined early that February , was
located at 1015 Central Street, practically around the corner from his
Railway Exchan ge of fice, in a  narrow two-and-a-half-story vanilla-brick
building with tall, hinged wind ows along the side to provide light for the
artists. There were fewer than t wenty employees at the time W alt started,
but t he c ompany was already the lar gest mail-order slide firm in the country
and was expanding rapidly . W alt said it did a million dollars’ worth of
business a year . The president of the operation and the interviewer who had
hired W alt was A rthur V erne Cauger , though most people called  him simply
“A.V .” C auger r eferred to himself as “one of the pioneers of the Moving
Picture business,” and in a smal l way he was. He had been bor n in Indiana
in 1 878 and stu died engineering, but his interest in mechanics apparently
lured him to the movies. He opened a theater in Granite City , Illinois, in
1907, an d when a competitor drove him out by of fering a long er show for
the s ame admission, he set up a nother theater in Carlyle, Illinois, and then
another in Neosho, Missouri. B ecause Neosho would not permit Cauger ’ s
theater to draw electricity from its publicly owned power plant in the
afternoons, he began making sli des in his spare time. Eventually  he sold the