# Página 766  
system, but Moses balked at the  price. (Imagineer Bob Gurr suspected that
W alt had also been victimized by standard manufacturers who “were always
putting us down as ‘For amuse ment parks only ,’” which could only have
riled W alt, whose own vistas had expanded into engineering.)
Even wi th the raft of rejections, W alt did not despair of convinc ing some
corporation to sponsor his belo ved Hall of Presidents and give him yet
another opportunity to pursue Audio-Animatronics. He had been toying
with the idea since the late 1950s, assigning Jim Algar , who wr ote many of
the T rue-Life Adventures, to read up on the presidents and write a script for
a historical presentation. W alt produced a thirty-two-minute show with
Algar ’ s script, as well as scale models and paintings by studio artist Sam
McKim, and he invited potential corporate backers to the studio to see it,
but the project was expensive,  and it foundered. In June 1961, with the
prospect of the world’ s fair , W alt revived the presentation, retitled it One
Nation Under God,  and had it brought to New Y ork to show Moses and
corporate chiefs from, among others, Coca-Cola, Colgate-Palmolive, Union
Carbide, and Hallmark, at the RCA V ictor Theater on Forty-ninth Street.
Moses was impressed, but he now felt the show shouldn’ t have corporate
sponsorship; he thought it should be a major installation at the United States
pavilion. T rying  to get them to r everse their initial rejection, Moses lobbied
Undersecretary of Commerce Franklin Roosevelt, Jr ., to convince the
deputy commissioner and the assistant commissioner for the federal
pavilion to visit the studio and see the Hall of Presidents presentation
themselves; when he was told the cost of the attraction was prohibitive, he
circumvented R oosevelt and personally pressured the deputy co mmissioner
to go  to the stud io. The commissioner finally did but concluded once again
that the cost was too high for the government. Still undeterred, Moses and
his d eputy , Martin Stone, enco uraged Disney to construct the hall under
WED’ s own auspices, with Sto ne saying that it was “too important to the
Fair and to W alt Disney to drop this without exhausting all possibilities.”
For W alt, the ap peal of the Hall of Presidents had always been less the
appeal of history than the appea l of creating life. “I’d like to no t be able to
tell them from real people,” he had told Sam McKim of his presidential
robots. Ever since his experiment with the Dancing Man in the early 1950s,