# Página 62  
huts hol ding wo unded men under going triage that would send them back to
America, to England, or to base hospitals on the French coast. H e was there
only a short time when he was sent back to the motor pool in P aris, where
he p layed poker and chauf feure d Red Cross and army of ficials. This duty
allowed him to see the city . Then he was transferred to Neuilly ,  just outside
Paris, an d by early February he had been transferred yet again, this time to
Hospital No. 102 in Neufchâteau, situated in rolling country roughly 150
miles east of Paris, a classically Gallic village with narrow stone streets,
quaint shuttered shops, cluster ed buildings, and a church whose spire
dominated the skyline.
Though the Red Cross operated the hospital there, seventy to eighty beds
used pri marily to sequester contagious patients who might infect American
troops, W alt had little contact w ith the ill. Mostly he ran errands for the
canteen that served troop replacements passing through Neufchâteau by
train on the way to Germany , or drove the canteen car , transport ing the girls
who worked there between the canteen and their quarters or to the
commissary for provisions or to surrounding farms for eggs or even
occasionally to picnics, especially when dignitaries visited. (He became
such an accomplished tour guide that he was soon in dem and.) The
proprietress of the canteen and W alt’ s nominal superior was a portly ,
bespectacled middle-aged nurse from Nebraska named Alice Howell,
whose primary responsibility w as making six hundred doughnuts each day
for the troops moving through there and then dispensing them on two long
sticks, o ne in each hand. W alt loved Howell. She became his surrogate
mother in France and the source of his fondest memory there. Howell
happened to be a close friend o f General John J. Pershing, the head of the
American Expeditionary Force. Pershing, who had grown up near
Marceline, was W alt’ s hero. Bec ause of his family’ s relationship to Howell,
the g eneral, headquartered in ne arby Chaumont, sent his ten-year -old son to
her cant een one afternoon for a  picnic. Though the boy had arrived in a
limousine, he insisted on riding in W alt’ s old Ford to Do mrémy , the
birthplace of Joan of Arc, where they ate fried chicken on the lawn in front
of her shrine. W alt always cherished that day with Pershing’ s son and
cherished Howe ll for making it possible. As he did with his tea chers at the
Benton School, he would continue to correspond with Alice Howell until