# Página 334  
wouldn’ t af fect his judgment. W hen he heard Caselotti, he rem arked, “She
sounds t o me like a fourteen-year -old girl,” which was exactly what he had
been loo king for . She was signe d for a nominal fee and recorded her first
tracks on January 20, 1936.
At r oughly the same time he was casting the voices, W alt was also
working on the music, though like everything else on the project, the
process dragged on for well over a year . W alt had always thou ght of Snow
White  in mu sical ter ms, even describing the dialogue poetically , “not
rhymed or definite beat rhythm, ” he told one story session, “but [it should]
have meter , and at the right tim e, tie in with the music, so the whole thing
has mus ical pattern…phrasing and fitting the mood to get away from
straight dialogue.” The immediate question—and one that was another
source o f continuous debate—was what kind of music would b est suit the
film. W a lt was suspicious of modern popular music. “I don’ t like the Cab
Calloway idea or too much OH DE OH DO,” he explained during a
discussion of the sequence in which the dwarfs entertain Snow White.
“Audiences hear a lot of hot stuf f. If we can keep this quaint, it will appeal
more than the hot stuf f.”
As the staf f worked to balance the quaint with the “peppy ,” p er W alt’ s
instructions, they also struggled with instrumentation. During one session
where storyman  and lyricist Larry Morey sang “Y ou’re Never T oo Old to
Be Y oung,” which was later excised from the film, a long discus sion ensued
over how the d warfs would present the song—W alt actually performed a
Swiss dance, slapping his fanny to demonstrate what he imagined—and
over what instruments they would play . T o record an experimen tal track for
the entertainment sequence, as Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston
remembered it, about thirty employees gathered and were “blowing on
bottles a nd jugs and strange homemade instruments.” Listenin g, W alt was
pleased. “Y eah! That’ s a happy song…a happy group!” he said , and added
that the only thing missing was  someone yodeling. Sound ef fects man Jim
Macdonald did, creating what would become a memorable moment in the
film.