# Página 532  
new scenes. Potter ’ s main tasks were to “smooth out” Seversky’ s thick
Russian accent and to make sure that the major hit his marks as he delivered
his dialo gue. When Seversky complained that it was too dif fic ult to speak
and hit the marks at the same  time, Potter reminded him of  how much
Seversky had had to do simultaneously when he flew and told him,
imitating Sever sky’ s accent, to “diwide the attention,” which the crew
began to shout whenever filming began.
W orking at breakneck speed—S eversky’ s scenes were shot in six days—
W alt managed to finish the picture by the end of May and then hosted a
celebratory combination screening and bon voyage party for t he major at
the stud io that June. Even bef ore the completion, though, the publicity
campaign had started. Roy was in New Y ork that May flogging the picture
and writing W alt delightedly that “I am sure we are going to raise a furor
with it from coa st to coast!” Perce Pearce had accompanied Se versky east
to ghost write ar ticles promoting  the film, and by late June the  studio was
screening the movie in New Y ork and W ashington for assorted notables,
among t hem the former advertising executive Albert Lasker , who was so
enamored of the film and its th eory that he or ganized a separa te publicity
campaign of his own for it. Las ker and his wife, Mary , called the film the
“most powerful and vital document yet put before the American public” and
predicted that its impact would be “dynamic.”
Lasker was right. W alt had wan ted to change the world, and he got his
opportunity . Ev en before the formal premiere in New Y ork on July 17,
1943, W alt was receiving private accolades. Newspaper magnate W illiam
Randolph Hears t wired W alt af ter a screening that the film was a “truly
great production” that had “rendered a valuable service to the community ,”
and Nels on Roc kefeller said it was not only a contribution to the war ef fort
but a demonstration of the limi tless possibilities of motion pictures. At a
gala pre view hosted by Lasker a nd W ashington social queen Elsa Maxwell,
the audience applauded spontaneously throughout the showing and gave a
sustained ovatio n at the end. Reviewers were equally enthusiastic, calling it
“exhilarating,” “stimulating,” “ingenious,” and so simple that “even a
youngster of 1 1 or so would hav e no dif ficulty in understanding what it’ s all
about.” The only dissents came from Agee again, who worried  that he was