# Página 76  
convinced Caug er , as an econom y measure, to let him write and shoot his
own ads rather than rely on th e copy department. (Already W alt had a
facility with quips. For an ad pr omoting a company that refurbished canvas
car t ops, he had a man address the owner of a reconditioned c ar: “Hi, old
top, new car?” “ No, new top, o ld car .”) And it was not long after that that
W alt prodded Cauger into lettin g him borrow an old mahogany  camera he
had foun d in the of fice sitting on a shelf, overcoming Cauger ’ s objections
that the compan y might need the  camera for some emer gency by promising
that he would return it immediately should that situation arise.
But if the Slide Co. was his school, he still needed a studio in which to
practice making  cartoons. He found one in his own backyard. That same
spring E lias and Flora returned to the Bellefontaine house from Chicago,
once again having failed. O-Zell  had gone bankrupt—by one account due to
the financial chicanery of its o f ficers, which sent them to Joliet Federal
Penitentiary , though this seems unlikely since the Disneys maintained
cordial relations with the family of O-Zell’ s president, Earl Scrogin, for
years af terward. W alt, obviously  wanting to impress his family and always
enamored of the grand gesture, greeted his parents and sister at Union
Station in a rent ed touring car . His parents had no automobile of their own,
but not long aft er his arrival E lias decided to build a garage in the yard
behind the Bellefontaine house with the intention of making some
additional mone y by renting it out. He had barely begun construction when
W alt told him that he would rent it himself and of fered his  father five
dollars a month, which, Roy would say , W alt never paid.
The garage, roughly fifteen fee t square and dominating the sm all yard,
became W alt’ s first studio. Inside he and Roy rigged Cauger ’ s camera into
an overhead camera stand with incandescent lights. Already during his short
time at Pesmen-Rubin, W alt ha d, according to Louis Pesmen, borrowed a
glass negative camera that he had found in the studio and begun
experimenting in Pesmen’ s sister ’ s garage with photographic images,
possibly , Pesmen speculated, making slides of his own. (His sis ter was less
than enthusiastic, Pesmen said, about the mess W alt left.) Focu sed now on
animation virtu ally to the exclusion of everything else—“W alt was a
focused man from childhood, ” his niece, Dorothy , who lived at the