# Página 63  
her deat h, and she in turn would send him the flag that had flown over the
canteen.
W riting to Howell years later , W alt would recall these months in
Neufchâteau as “mingled with joy and sorrow ,” but the sorrows seemed
rare. He found t he French cordial until the peace conference began turning
against them and they grew increasingly hostile toward the Americans;
once a French girl grabbed his h at and threw it of f, and another time he got
himself in a scu f fle. As for the Germans, his only contact with  them came
when he  was heading up a garb age detail of prisoners of war; they found
themselves under attack from French children throwing stones. Otherwise,
he jo ked in a postcard home, he was “doing something I very seldom do
—‘work.’”
His most eventful assignment was driving a truckload of sugar and beans
to S oissons. During the trip it s nowed, and the truck burned out a bearing.
He sent an asso ciate to get help , then spent the next two days at a railroad
watchman’ s sha ck awaiting assistance. When the associate failed to return,
W alt hiked into town for a meal, fell asleep, and hiked back, onl y to find the
truck missing. The associate had gone to Paris, where he had passed out,
drunk, b efore reporting the incident. By the time a rescue crew finally
arrived, W alt had gone for his m eal, and the crew had taken the truck. W alt
faced a board of inquiry but, th anks to an understanding ser geant, was let
of f with a reprimand for leaving his post.  
When he was not driving or running errands, he did what he had always
done. He drew—sketches for the canteen menu featuring a  doughboy
character he had devised, poster s advertising hot chocolate and baths to the
troops, designs on the canvas flaps over the sides of the ambulances,
caricatures for his fellow enlist ees to send to their girls and families for
which W alt char ged a fee, editorial cartoons to The McKinley V oice  and to
friends b ack home with crude s entiments like an AEF soldier kicking the
German kaiser of f a clif f and say ing, “Get of f and stay of f,” and even comic
strips. He drew on an easel that he set up in his barracks under the window ,