# Página 429  
Because W alt could do whatev er he pleased without having to worry
about a narrative or realistically  representative drawings, Fantasia  seemed
to sail along that  spring and sum mer of 1939 without any of the hurdles that
he had encountered on Bambi  and Pinocchio —except for one section.
When W alt had jettisoned “Cydalise” for Beethoven’ s “Pastorale,” he was
fitting a  preconception to the music. He had envisioned a section inspired
by Greek mythology featuring the gods on Mount Olympus and the
mythological cr eatures at the f oot of the mountain—those centaurs and
fauns. “W e don’ t get too serious because I don’ t feel anything really
serious,” he told his storymen that August as they were beginning to flesh
out the segment ; but he warned that “we’re not going to be slap stick; there
is a certain refinement in the whole thing.” W alt was so eager  to proceed
that he promised to put the entire studio to work on the sequence.
Up to this poin t Stokowski, who attended many of the story meetings
early tha t spring and late that summer , had been generally su pportive of
W alt’ s ideas, even encouraging him to ignore the anticipated criticisms by
classical music aficionados. But  when it came to the “Pastorale,” Stokowski
drew a line. “I don’ t want to come out of my own field— I’m only a
musician,” Stokowski said disin genuously at a story meeting that July , “but
I think what you have there, the idea of great [ sic ] mythology , is not quite
my idea  of what this symphony is about. This is a nature symphony—it’ s
called Pastoral [ sic ].” He repeated his objection a few weeks later when it
was suggested that the nature forms be eliminated altogether . “If you are
going to  leave out the trees an d nature forms,” he said, “you’re going to
leave ou t what it is.” When W alt seemed to brush aside his complaints,
Stokowski, sayi ng that he wan ted to be “loyal to you and t he picture,”
nevertheless for cefully explaine d that Beethoven was “worshipped” and
that if they stray ed too far from his intent, they would be asking  for trouble
from of fended music enthusiasts.
On this point W alt held his grou nd with Stokowski. He didn’ t want to put
nature u p on the screen, he reb utted, because he thought it would be too
conventional to have bucolic scenes. “I defy anybody to go out and shoot
centaurs or gods making a storm,” he said. “That’ s our medium, and that’ s
how I feel about this.” He there by expressed, intentionally or not, that the