# Página 647  
executive left “with a great deal of enthusiasm,” but he admitted that “our
people seemed not to understand what he was talking about.”
The ABC executives weren’ t the only ones who couldn’ t get their minds
around t he conc ept of an imagin ative park. Lillian said she was  “afraid” of
the park , afraid it was too ambitious. Roy said he was n’ t initially
enthusiastic eith er , though he grudgingly justified the project on the
grounds that the park could be used as a broadcast studio for television.
None of this h ad the least ef fect in dissuading W alt, who was more
ener gized than he had been in years. He asked John Cowles, a young
architect who was the son of W alt’ s early Kansas City benefactor , Dr . J. V .
Cowles, to expand upon Gof f ’ s s ketches with architectural draw ings, and he
set h im up in a bungalow on the Burbank lot. In March, using sketches
made by animator Don DaGradi, W alt sent a presentation to the Burbank
Parks an d Recr eation Board, whose approval he needed, announcing his
plans fo r a park that would generate a small profit rather than one that
would o perate o n a “full bore moneymaking scale,” though it no w included
a ca nal boat, a spaceship mock- up, and a submarine ride. That  same week
W alt had one of his associates begin searching for a small coach and
Shetland ponies  to pull it; he ha d already installed a Shetland p ony trainer
named Owen Pope at the studio  to put up stalls and build carriages. Pope,
who live d with his wife Dolly in a trailer on the lot under the water tower ,
said that W alt would stop by every day to talk about the park.
The project hadn’ t a name yet—occasionally it was called “Mickey
Mouse V illage”—but a few months earlier Sharpsteen had written a memo
to W alt referring to an anticipated 16mm nontheatrical release of the old
Snow White  pro motional film for the RKO sales force as “A T rip Through
Disneyland,” and the miniature project had already been dubbed
“Disneylandia.” “I don’ t recall a specific occasion when anyone said it’ s
going to be calle d Disneyland,” said Bill Cottrell. “I do recall that the name
was suddenly said by W alt, and it sounded good, and that was it.”
Thenceforth the  park would be known as Disneyland, which was exactly
what it would b e: a land of W alt Disney’ s imagination, a land under his
absolute power .