# Página 715  
Though he stopped running the train after that incident, she said, he kept it
at th e house an d one Sunday a fternoon decided to run it himself with a
remote c ontrol from his work b arn. But in a scene out of The Sor cer er ’ s
Appr entice,  th e train, as Sharon described it, “ran full tilt into the side of the
garage. Daddy took a lot of pictures of it and stashed it for good in a cubby
at D isneyland. He was through with toy trains.” W alt told it dif ferently . He
said he got tired of seeing everyone else riding the train and enjoying
themselves while “I was wearing myself out stoking coal all day .”
In any case, even if Disneyland hadn’ t intervened, after Duchess died he
was less inclined to spend time in the workshop tooling items for his train.
She had had gallstones, and rather than operate on her , the veterinarian
wanted t o put her down. W alt re fused and stayed with her . “I feel you take
them and you owe it to them,” he said. She actually seemed to be
recovering and was being given a bath at the vet’ s of fice when s he suddenly
expired. Perhaps  nothing spoke more forcefully of the nature of W alt and
Lillian’ s relatio nship than the fact that W alt suspected Lillian had
countermanded him and told the vet to have Duchess euthanize d. “He was
furious,” Diane recalled, and demanded that an autopsy be performed.
“That w as the only way he cou ld believe she hadn’ t done anyt hing behind
his b ack.” Even after Duchess was gone, he kept her blanket un disturbed in
his workshop.  
If the house didn ’ t provide a ret reat from the studio and bring him closer to
the family , it didn’ t keep the girls at home either , as he had hoped. In the
fall of 1951 D iane, always a good student, entered the U niversity of
Southern California, located in central Los Angeles, from which she could
come home on weekends. W alt welcomed the visits, even though he
continued to complain that she was “always on the go” and “I don’ t get to
see m uch of her  these days.” But he noticed a change in her since her years
of attending private girls’ schools. “Heretofore with the association of only
girls and more girls,” he wrote his aunt Jessie, “the matter of her appearance