# Página 244  
T echnicolor , a company dedica ted to color film, announced a three-color
process early in 1932 that promised to reproduce tones more faithfully , W alt
was said to hav e declaimed, “At last! W e can show a rainbow on the
screen.”
Whether he  could show it, however , was a point of contention with Roy .
W alt ad mitted that color animations were prohibitively expen sive—three
times as much as black-and-white in lab costs and about a fourth more in
production costs —with little chance of recovering those expenses in the
short run , especi ally since the U nited Artists contract didn’ t call for color or
for a ny adjustment should W alt decide to deliver his cartoons in color . Roy
was adamantly opposed and asked others to dissuade W alt, but W alt was not
to be dissuaded, ar guing that color cartoons would have a longer life than
black-and-whites. “I found out the people who live with figure s as a rule,
it’ s post mortem, it’ s never ahead, it’ s always what happened,” W alt would
say dismissively  of Roy’ s objections. “W ell, in my particular end I was
always ahead.” W alter Lantz at  Universal had already made a T echnicolor
sequence for The King of Jazz  starring Paul Whiteman. Now W alt felt it was
his turn.
For its part, T echnicolor was eager to assist, since it had had dif ficulty
convincing live-action studios t o bear the tremendous expense of color; in
1932 the company lost $235,000. W alt had already begun th e next Silly
Symphony in black-and-white, a story about two trees who fall in love, only
to find their ro mance threatened by a jealous gnarly tree. Now , with
T echnicolor ’ s co operation, he decided midway to convert it to color . So he
had the ink and paint departmen t wash of f the reverse side of the black and
white cels, the s ide with the wh ite and gray shades, leaving only the black
outlines on the other side. Then  he had the cels repainted in c olor on the
reverse side. W alt was so excited by the outcome that he invited Rob
W agner , a friend, writer , and well-connected Hollywood bon vivant, to view
scenes from the film. W agner , in turn, recommended that the film be shown
to S id Grauman, Los Angeles’ s leading theater impresario and the chief of
Grauman’ s Chin ese Theater . Grauman was as floored as W alt and W agner
and booked it that July at the Chinese with MGM’ s Strange Interlude,  a
major release that ensured Flowers and T r ees  would receive wide attention.