# Página 591  
But with his app earance and his careless denunciation, W alt Disney had
gotten h imself ensnared in the politics of red-baiting. Shortly after his
testimony he was invited to an A merican Legion rally at which the legion’ s
commander , James F . O’Neil who had been spearheading a d rive for an
industry blacklist of Communists and Communist supporters, w ould be in
attendance. W al t begged of f, saying he would be at Smoke T ree at the time
for a much-need ed rest, but he added, “I would have no hesitancy in joining
your group,” and said, “I am sure the Hollywood people who were in
W ashington will all be glad to attend.” When a number of studi o heads met
in N ovember at the W aldorf Astoria Hotel in New Y ork to discuss
instituting their own blacklist, W alt sent his New Y ork publicity chief,
W illiam Levy , who approved the plan for the studio. “Blacklisting me
would h ave been embarrassing for him,” Maurice Rapf observed, blaming
Roy and  Lessin g for stoking W alt’ s anti-Communism. “He wo uldn’ t have
liked to fire me, but he would have fired me, of course,” Rap f said, had
Rapf not already left the studio. Rapf was right. W alt did enforce a blacklist,
and he didn’ t do  so reluctantly . H e was among the first subscribers to Alert,
which billed itself as the “weekly report on Communism in California,” and
he ro utinely cooperated with the  FBI, even funneling names of prospective
employees to the bureau for clearance.
Of cours e by this time it was n o secret that W alt Disney was a fervent
anti-Communist. Another question—one that would haunt him for the rest
of his life and  even haunt his reputation decades after he  died—was
whether he was also an anti-Semite. As with race, one could cer tainly point
to some casual i nsensitivity . Shortly after the release of Thr ee Little Pigs  in
1933, Rabbi J. X. Cohen, the director of the American Jewish Congress,
wrote W alt angrily that a scene i n which the wolf was portrayed as a Jewish
peddler was so “vile, revolting and unnecessary as to constit ute a direct
af front to the Jews,” especially in light of what was then happening in
Germany , and he asked that the of fending scene be removed. Ro y , speaking
for W alt , respon ded that he felt the scene was neither vile nor revolting, that
the studio had J ewish friends and business associates whom i t would not
dare to demean,  and that the characterization was no dif ferent f rom that of
Jewish c omedians in vaudeville  or on the screen. (Y ears later , when Pigs
was re-released, the scene was r eanimated.) Whether it came from this kind