# Página 325  
sweatbox of an early scene anim ated by Eric Larson, W alt noted of a dwarf,
“his fanny in the last half of sc ene is too high,” and “Have hu mmingbird
make fo ur pick-ups instead of six.” Even his of fhand remarks  could find
their way into the film, as when W alt suggested during the s cene of the
dwarfs in the mine that “Dopey could come in and see two stones and
clown. P ut them  in his eyes.” He was visualizing the entire movie, shot by
shot, gag by gag, detail by detail, as if there were a projector in his head.
And that is why , for all the tal k of collaboration, no one at the studio
doubted that the job was less t o exhibit his own talent than to realize on
screen what W alt was visualizing in his head. Indeed, there was a
stenographer at each story session so that W alt’ s suggestions could be
distributed and interpreted like holy writ. When W alt was describing, this
was easy . But when he was b rainstorming, tossing out ideas one after
another , it could cause problems. One of the most frequent complaints at the
studio h ad always been that on e often couldn’ t know what W alt wanted
because W alt couldn’ t always a rticulate it unless he acted it out. On Snow
White  this was especially harrowing for the staf f. “It was often dif ficult to
know p recisely what W alt saw in a piece of business,” Thomas and
Johnston wrote, “and after each meeting there would be some disagreement
over wh at he had said, and even more confusion over what he had meant.”
It was Ham Luske who usually clarified. “Someone would say that W alt
said he wants it like this. Ham would say , ‘No, that’ s not wha t he means.
This is what he means.’” What W alt meant was the guide.
“What we are trying to do with W alt is build the picture as he sees it,”
Dave Hand, Snow White ’ s supervising director , told the staf f. “W e have got
to tr ust in one man’ s judgment or we won’ t have a good pictu re.” In later
years th e anima tor Joseph Barbera, a Disney rival, would joke  of the old
Disney animato rs he encountered that “everyone who had ever been
associated with W alt Disney either created ‘The Three Little Pigs’ or Snow
White. ” But despite this arrogation W ilfred Jackson believed tha t the
animators were really irrelevant and that W alt was the only one  who really
mattered. “It is my opinion,” he told Thomas and Johnston, “that if W alt
had started in some dif ferent pla ce at the same time with a dif ferent bunch
of guys,  the result would have  been more or less along the same lines.”