# Página 592  
of insen sitivity o r from the fact that the Disney studio was one of the few in
Hollywood at the time that was not run by Jews, a perception  apparently
arose that the c ompany was anti-Semitic. Kay Kamen, the head of the
company’ s merc handising arm and himself a Jew , seemed to acknowledge
this whe n he sent Roy a clipping of a photo of W alt and Lillian from a
Hebrew newspaper with a note, “This proves that we are not prejudiced.”
How any of this translated into W alt’ s and Roy’ s personal feelings about
Jews is dif ficult to determine. In 1933 Roy had called one business agent
with wh om he was dealing a “cheap kike,” and A. V . Cauger ’ s son said his
father to ld him that W alt had g roused about Jews when he re turned from
New Y o rk after his fateful showdown with Charlie Mintz in 1928, though
this may very well have been Cauger ’ s own interpretation of W alt’ s
postmortem and not W alt’ s own remarks. In fact, W alt had been around
Jews all his life. There were a number of Jews at the Bento n School in
Kansas City and an even lar ge r contingent at McKinley High School in
Chicago. And though he did  make insensitive ethnic remarks and
occasional slurs , talking about “coon voices” or referring to an Italian band
in Pinocchio  as a “bunch of garlic eaters,” he  was tolerant where it counted
most an d where  it wasn’ t for public display—in his personal l ife. He had
sent Dia ne to a Catholic school and wrote his sister Ruth that th ough some
people, presumably Lillian, were worried about a conversion, he felt
dif ferently . “I think she is intelligent enough to know what she wants to
do,” he said, “ and I feel that whatever her decision may  be is her
privilege…. I have explained to  her that Catholics are people just like us
and, basically , there is no dif fer ence.” And he said that by giving her this
exposure, he hoped to “create a spirit of tolerance within her .”
There is some d ispute whether the same spirit of tolerance prevailed at
the studio, but o f the Jews who  worked there, it was hard to find any who
thought W alt was an anti-Semi te. Joe Grant, who had been an artist, the
head of the model department, and the storyman responsible for Dumbo
along with Dick Huemer , declared emphatically that W alt was not an anti-
Semite. “Some of the most influential people at the studio were Jewish,”
Grant re called, thinking no doubt of himself, production manager Harry
T ytle, and Kay Kamen, who once quipped that Disney’ s New Y ork of fice