# Página 180  
Mickey Mouse Club members staged a parade as a highlight o f a Mickey
Mouse Club convention. At th eir peak, Roy estimated, there were over
eight hundred chapters in the country with, by another estimate , more than
one mill ion mem bers—more, ac cording to the Motion Pictur e Herald,  than
the c ombined membership of th e Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts of America.
The Mickey Mouse Clubs had become a movement.
W alt was looking to newspap ers, too, in his campaign to establish
Mickey as a nat ional figure, just as Pat Sullivan had used a comic strip to
establish Felix. At least since June 1929, when Iwerks received a letter from
J. V . Connelly of the King F eatures newspaper syndicate lauding the
Mickey Mouse cartoons and sug gesting the possibility of a Mic key Mouse
comic st rip, W a lt had been aggr essively pushing the idea with Powers and
Giegerich, not so much to exploit Mickey as to promote him further . By
early Au gust, King Features had made a firm of fer—this was  when Roy
was attempting to enlist Dick Huemer to draw the strip—and on January 13,
1930, it made its first appearanc e. W alt contributed the stories w hile Iwerks
drew the strip and another artist named W in Smith inked the drawings.
When Smith suddenly quit four months later , W alt shifted a young animator
named Floyd Gottfredson into the job on a temporary assignm ent. In the
end W al t was too distracted by other obligations to find a repla cement, and
Gottfredson would continue d rawing the Mickey Mouse strip until his
retirement in 1975.
Like the  Mickey  Mouse Clubs, t he comic strip was an instant success and
another enormous boon to Mickey’ s popularity—perhaps as powerful an
engine in disseminating his image as the cartoons themselves. By the
summer the strip was being syndicated in as many as forty new spapers and
in twent y-two countries and was earning the Disneys $1,500 a  month, out
of w hich they paid $800 in salaries and other costs. It was evid ence of the
strip’ s appeal that when, as a promotion for it, a dozen pap ers of fered
readers a Mickey Mouse photo, they received twenty thousand requests.
Throughout the months that he w as pressing to launch the Mickey Mouse
Clubs an d the comic strip, W alt was also prodding Giegerich to make a deal
to manu facture Mickey Mouse merchandise, of fering him 10 percent of the