# Página 824  
he w ould use them. He just broke of f the filters. “I didn’ t tel l her how  I
would u se them, ” he joked to a confederate. During one of his last meetings
with him , W ard Kimball remembered W alt breaking into a long coughing
jag. “Wh en I timidly asked why he didn’ t give up smoking,” K imball said,
“W alt lo oked up at me, his face still red from the coughing, and rasped,
‘W ell, I gotta ha ve a few vices,  don’ t I?’” By this time W alt was smoking
Gitanes imported from France.
Now , after nearly a half-century  of smoking, he was under goin g sur gery
that just a few days earlier was thought to be relatively routine. Though
W alt had typically been outwardly confident, even at times ebullient, he
knew hi s conditi on was serious. The day before the operation, a Sunday , he
drove the short distance from Diane’ s recently vacated house in Encino—
where h e and Lillian were s taying while the Carolwood house was
under going reno vation—to Dian e’ s new house in Encino for a visit. At the
end he got into his car , drove down the driveway to the bottom  of a swell,
and stop ped; he sat there for some time in the car , alone, w atching his
grandson Christ opher play ball with Ron, then finally drove of f. He knew .
When the doctor emer ged from sur gery the next day , he told the family
gathered there that it was as he had suspected and feared: W alt had a
malignant tumor  that had metastasized. The doctor gave him six months to
two years to live. Lillian, Diane said, was in denial. Roy too was benumbed,
exploding when  he said that W alt had a carcinoma and his daughter -in-law
“corrected” him and said he had “cancer .”
W alt remained in the hospital for cobalt treatments and attempted to
conduct busines s. He asked a writer named Spec McClure to do a complete
review of the studio’ s story selection process and then report on “what the
elements essent ial to a success ful Disney film might be,” as  if the staf f
might be able to  manufacture one by specifications should W a lt no longer
be there. Marty Sklar and Marc Davis completed a Preliminary Master
Photoplan for EPCOT , and Bill Anderson was advising him on cuts for an
upcoming live-a ction feature, The Happiest Millionair e,  whi ch w as runn ing
nearly three hours long, while Card W alker prepared next year ’ s release
schedule. Harry  T ytle said tha t he had come to the hospital to discuss
several projects  when the doctor appeared and notified W alt that they