# Página 277  
refused, even turning down Dr . Cowles, his old benefactor , now in financial
straits, claiming  that he had no money since he plowed everything he
earned back into the company to maintain quality . He was not, an early
profile suggested, much of a businessman, and he cared nothing for money
except a s a means to an end. A rticle after article promoted the idea that
W alt’ s only ambition was to make great cartoons, not a great fortune.
All of these things were more  or less true. W alt did believe he had
overcome childhood hardships. He was informal and eschewed the
Hollywood scen e and celebrity , his polo fetish notwithstanding.  He was not
an intellectual and never pretended to be one. He did reinvest most of his
money i n the company . And he was driven to produce great ca rtoons both
as a business proposition and as a psychological one. Still, W alt was also
deeply aware of the value of disseminating and displaying these things
publicly , even if it was only du ring his own personal appearances. In the
studio h e could often be brusque. In public he was typically acc essible and
generous, wheth er it was to a fa n complimenting him on a cartoon or to a
waiter serving him. Jack Kinney  believed that W alt had studied W ill Rogers
and imitated his down-home mannerisms, belying the fact, Kinney said, that
“he could swear like a trooper ,  and he had a terrific ego.” W ard Kimball
concurred that there was a certa in deliberation in the construction of W alt’ s
image. W alt, he said, “played  the role of a bashful tycoon who was
embarrassed in public,” but “he knew exactly what he was doing at all
times.” I n ef fect , W alt Disney w as beginning to assume the role  of himself.
It was a role he would play with variations for the rest of his life.  
But while W alt Disney had become an international figure, th e father of
Mickey and now Donald, confusion reigned over exactly what he did at his
own studio. T o many if not most outside the studio, he was th ought to do
the a ctual drawing—an impressi on he did little to discourage. In truth, W alt
did no drawing whatsoever anymore, though he took credit for the
productions and demanded it, no doubt in part because he was still wounded
by t he d iscourtesy shown him by Charlie Mintz and Pat Powers, who had