# Página 514  
getting a start in this industrial field,” Fred Moore of Kidder , Peabody wrote
W alt, ad ding a vague threat tha t “so long as you do not reach  outside for
broadening your  field, your futu re outlook is not what we had h oped.” The
best pa rt, Roy  enthused to W alt after meeting with Cu rtiss-W right
representatives, was that these companies, unlike the government, could
af ford to  pay more than cost. The studio could actually make the profit it so
desperately needed.
Of cours e, if the best part to this  work was the potential profits, the worst
part was that the  Disney studio w as no longer the Disney studio. It was now
an educational and industrial fil m facility , an arm of the government, with
W alt and  Roy virtually commuting from Los Angeles to W ashington. And
though W alt clearly recognized how imperative it was to do bu siness with
the gove rnment if the studio w as to survive, he, who had lived only to
produce great films, was frustrated. For one thing he was frustrated by the
nickel-and-diming of the gover nment bureaucrats. The navy , for one, had
vetoed t he idea of the studio ad ding a fixed percentage to its contracts for
overhead and profit. An of ficial suggested instead that the studio set a fixed
price. If the actual production costs were lower than the budget, the navy
would d emand an adjustment; if the costs exceeded the budge t, the studio
would h ave to absorb the loss. H e was also frustrated by minor  bureaucrats
reviewing storyboards and issuing warnings and orders where he had been
the ultimate power just a few months before. When the navy’ s J. C.
Hutchinson threatened W alt that he would either deliver the film on
approach and landing promptly or bear the criticism “which can be heard in
the h alls re Disn ey ,” W alt wrote back indignantly that he was d isturbed by
the comment. But in truth he could do nothing about it because he needed to
maintain good relations with the department. “W alt more or less lost
control,” recalle d Joe Grant, “b ecause we had so many of the army brass
there at the studio, and all of them considered themselves producers.”
Finally , he was frustrated over the kinds  of films he wa s now forced to
make. He had bristled at t he idea of having to produ ce lar gely
unimaginative training and educational films with primitive animation, but
he u nderstood the economic and  patriotic necessity of doing so. He was less
amenable when he was approac hed by both the T reasury Dep artment and