# Página 390  
retreat f or his employees and their families beginning June 4 at the Lake
Narconian Hotel and Club near Palm Springs.
As it turned out, the retreat was a debacle. All the years of pent-up ener gy
on Snow White  gushed forth. Alcohol flowed freely . Men and women
openly paired of f for romantic l iaisons. One of the studio watc hmen threw
his w ife into the  swimming pool, then ran to the roof of the hotel and made
a hi gh dive to rescue her . Another employee rode a horse in to the hotel
lobby . D runken Fred Moore fell out of a second-story window  but landed
on a bush and walked away unhurt. W alt was embarrassed and
disappointed.
The horseplay didn’ t square with  the ef fusive encomia that W alt was now
receiving. In addition to the praise he was garnering as one of the nation’ s
greatest artists,  that June he received an honorary degree from the
University of Southern California, his first such award, but he had already
been no tified in February that Y ale University would be awar ding him a
degree a t its June commenceme nt, and Harvard quickly followed suit—the
first hon orary degree it had ever  awarded to a person in film. T he Y ale and
Harvard degrees, in fact, were bestowed on successive days, J une 22 and
23, and W alt r eceived “prolon ged applause” at the Harvard ceremony .
These ho nors pr ompted W alt and Lillian’ s trip east, where he was also feted
by a host of notables at the Mus ic Hall in New Y ork City , including Radio
Corporation of America chief David Sarnof f and publisher Ogden Reid.
When h e return ed to his of fice  at Hyperion, he installed trop hy cases to
house th e numerous awards he had received—as New Y ork T imes  critic
Frank N ugent enumerated them  after a visit, “a crystal and silver goblet
from Russia, loving cups from m ost of the junior Chambers of Commerce,
medals and plaques from France and Brazil and countries in between,
honorary scrolls  from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and  Sciences,”
and of course his honorary degrees.
Inevitably , despite the shenanig ans at Lake Narconian, a new sense of
dignity began to pervade the stu dio—and a new pressure. Snow White  had
proven t he pow er of the anima ted cartoon, and it had provide d the studio
with a financial cushion. But it had also raised the stakes once again,