# Página 615  
up,” W alt wrote his aunt Jessie Perkins, “and I am looking forward to
spending more time at home than I have in the past.”
One of the major lures was W al t’ s train. In looking for a new h ome site,
he was seeking a place where he could lay track for the r ailroad that
consumed him. Diane and Lillian had found a site of f W ilshire Boulevard,
but W al t vetoed  it because the re was no place for the train. Meanwhile
Lillian h ad phoned Harold Janss, a well-known developer , who suggested a
heavily wooded two-and-a-half-acre property at Holmby Hills, a rich
development in western Los Angeles that Janss’ s family had owned since
the 1920s. W alt and Lillian drove out to view the plot one Sunday in May
1948, and as Li llian put it, “W alt took one look and said, ‘That’ s it!’ He
could see that train here.” Unlike W oking W ay , which was close to
Burbank, the site had the additional advantage, W alt would say , of being far
enough from the studio so that he could use his drive there for precious time
to meditate.
They closed the deal on June 4 for $33,250. (W alt applied for a  $25,000
building loan from the Bank of America and listed his income as
$104,000.)* The site gently sloped down from a bluf f on which the home
was to be built to a canyon tha t would separate the home from the road.
W alt’ s neighbor hood in Los Feliz had been something of a  bohemian
district; it spoke to the exclu sivity of the new neighborhood that one
adjacent home was owned by W illiam Goetz, MGM head Louis B. Mayer ’ s
son-in-law and one of the top executives at Universal-Interna tional. The
new house itself, designed by a highly regarded Russian-born architect and
furniture maker named James Dolena, sometimes called the “architect to the
stars,” was a 5,669-square-foot  split-level modern sheathed in white that
flared ou t into two wings. The la wn behind the house led to a 22-by-44-foot
swimming pool. Beyond the pool was a fifteen-hundred -square-foot
recreation buildi ng that housed a screening room, a bar , a four -car garage,
and W alt’ s own pièce de résistance—a fully operational soda fountain.
The W oking W ay house had been completed in two months as the
Disneys awaited the birth of the child Lillian would miscarry . The
construction of the new house at 355 Carolwood Drive was much more