# Página 415  
same inj unction he had used for the new Mickey Mouse. “That’ s  too gross.”
So Kimb all wen t back to his drawing board and converted him into a little
man with an oversize head. Though Jiminy now bore no resemblance to a
cricket, W alt was pleased. As Kimball put it, “[H]e was a cric ket because
we called him a cricket.”
That stil l left Pinocchio and the ongoing debate about whethe r he was
more a wooden puppet or a little  boy . The wooden concept mad e sense—he
was  a puppe t who later became  a boy—but W alt had seen the footage that
Fred Moore had animated and , as Ollie Johnston remembered, “felt the
character needed to be more a ppealing,” just like Jiminy . Milt Kahl had
been cri tical of the character , thinking that he didn’ t move well, so Luske,
who had  recommended Kimball  for Jiminy , recommended that Kahl take a
crack at  Pinocchio himself and make him essentially a boy with wooden
joints. K ahl accepted the challenge, animated the scene of Pinocchio
undersea knock ing on an oyste r shell, and then showed it to W alt, who,
Johnston said, “flipped.” Even  Fred Moore was impressed, though the
redesign knocke d him from his  perch as the most favored animator in the
studio. From that point on, Ka hl was in char ge of animating Pinocchio,
assisted by Frank Thomas an d Ollie Johnston, while Moore animated
Lampwick, Pino cchio’ s dissolut e guide on Pleasure Island, a character with
more than a passing resemblance to Moore himself.
But even having resolved the n arrative problems and having settled on
Jiminy and a m ore boylike Pinocchio, W alt was concerned. H e knew that
Pinocchio  w as more conv entional than Bambi  or The Concert Featur e ; that
was prec isely why he felt he could hasten it into production. B ut he didn’ t
want it to be just another cartoon—a Snow White  kn ockof f. It was
imperative that it be bigger , grander , and more realistically animated.
Otherwise there  was no aesthe tic reason to make it. Indeed,  one of the
reasons W alt was so intent on an underwater sequence was that,  as he wrote
Otto En glander , “[i]t all gives us a chance for something very fantastic.”
Though virtually  the entire film  was already being shot in live action for
rotoscoping, W alt had asked artist Joe Grant, who was an excellent
caricaturist, how they might improve their technique. Grant suggested a
model department where they could fashion little statues of the characters