# Página 767  
he had sought a way to make human robots, and though he had gotten
distracted with  Disneyland, in the late 1950s he asked WED to
reinvestigate. W alt decided to create a Chinatown at Disneyland with two
two-story buildi ngs across an alleyway connected at the top floors by a
pedestrian bridg e. One of the buildings would house a Chinese  restaurant,
and W al t foresaw a robotic Co nfucius who would answer questions from
loudspeakers scattered throughout the dining room that wou ld make it
sound a s if diners were the ones doing the asking. (It was at this time,
apparently , that Bill Cottrell coi ned the word Animatr onics,  t o whic h Dick
Irvine added the Audio. ) Ub Iwerks actually erected the Confucius head and
had it talking, b ut the rubber “skin” allegedly tore, and in any case the
Chinatown idea was aborted.
The idea of human Audio-Animatronic robots, however , survived, if
only , W alt said, because “you can’ t have human beings work ing three or
four shifts; we can’ t af ford to pay ’em, or they’ll make mistakes, or
somebody won’ t show up. W e’ve got to figure out a way to have automated
shows.” He set some of his Ima gineers to devise for Disneyland a show of
mechanical birds that he called the Enchanted T iki Room. (T his was the
exhibit in which he tried to in terest Coca-Cola.) Another gro up went to
work on the Ha ll of Presidents and on a specific idea of W alt’ s for the
attraction that seemed as chime rical as his idea to construct an entire city:
W alt had decided he wanted to create a life-size robot of Abraham Lincoln.
W alt had  always admired Lincoln, and though he read very little beyond
newspapers and scripts, he had devoured information on the sixteenth
president—one American institution channeling another . He w as certainly
aware of the hubris of trying to bring Lincoln to life. When  he showed
Audio-Animatronic prototypes to a minister , the minister told him, “It was
all right for you to bring fairy tales to life and for you to create a humanlike
mouse, but to create a man—that’ s usurping the powers of a higher
authority .” Even  some of W alt’ s own Imagineers had qualms about trying to
make hu man ro bots. “It seemed that we were getting into areas that were
competitive with acting, someth ing that could be done much better by live
performers,” Blaine Gibson said. W alt rebutted that only a robotic Lincoln
could lo ok exact ly like Lincoln. (He had actually had Gibson sculpt the face