# Página 84  
that he could make them for thirty cents a foot, and Newman closed the deal
on the spot, saying he would ta ke as many Laugh-O-grams as W alt could
draw . W alt said he left “walking on air .” It was not until an hour later that
he realized that the price he had quoted Newman was his cost with no
profit.
Now , after his r elatively short apprenticeship, he was an animator . His
sample reel premiered at the Newman Theater on March 20, 1921. But
producing the Laugh-O-grams was time-consuming, especially  with W alt
fully em ployed at the Film Ad Co., and they appeared irregula rly over the
next few months. He realized he would need coworkers and apprentices,
and he placed a newspaper wa nt ad for aspiring cartoonists o f fering not
remuneration, si nce he had no money to give them, but experience. A high
school student named Rudy Ising—“I was intrigued with the idea of
animation,” Ising would say—a nswered the ad and began assisting W alt in
the Bellefontaine garage. For the Laugh-O-grams W alt was working in the
“lightning sketches” tradition. Following another Lutz suggestion, he would
draw an image in light blue pencil, which would not register on the
orthochromatic film he used. Then Ising would ink in the lines, inserting a
photograph of W alt’ s hand (the  real hand would have been too thick to
place be tween the camera and th e drawing) after each increment, constantly
stopping and shooting, so that when the film was run continuously the
image appeared to be drawn by the hand with preternatural rapidity .
As one might have expected from a nineteen-year -old novice, the Laugh-
O-grams were raw and unsophisticated, though competently drawn. They
commented not only on streetcar service but also on potholes, new fashions,
and a police scandal, which W alt ham-handedly satirized by showing
cartoon of ficers filing into the precinct house and then filing out in prison
uniforms. But Milt Feld was mo re than satisfied. He commissioned W alt to
provide special titles for coming attractions and anniversary shows, and
animations to be shown before the program advising proper theater
protocol. In one a cartoon profes sor admonished moviegoers no t to read the
titles aloud, at the risk of being hit on the head with a lar ge mallet.