# Página 817  
As the staf f worked that spring of 1966 on The Jungle Book,  adapted
from Rudyard Kipling’ s stories about a boy who grows up among animals
in th e wild, the problems kept mounting. Reitherman importune d W alt for a
meeting—“It would take about ½ hour ,” he memoed W alt plain tively—and
W alt complied but was not happy with what he saw . The stories were
episodic rather than cumulative; they lacked a spine. He thou ght that the
audience would not identify with the boy , Mowgli, and that the film’ s tone
was too sober . H e was afraid that the villain, a tiger named S here Khan,
would b e a cliché. Y et despite h is preoccupation with other projects and his
lack of interest in this one, he quickly salvaged the production , as he had
done so many times in the past, by suggesting that singer Phil Harris,
known for his l oose, boozy , throwaway style, voice a bear na med Baloo
who befriends Mowgli. “When  W alt heard Phil’ s test track he loved it,”
Frank T homas a nd Ollie Johnston would later write, “even to the point of
starting to act out how the bear would first come dancing into Mowgli’ s
scene.” The bear , who had been intended as a minor figure, became the
film’ s c ostar , c onverting the picture from a series of d isconnected
adventures into the story of a bo y and his hedonistic mentor—a jungle Hal
and Falstaf f.
Finally , while he was engaged with the animation and television and
Mineral King and CalArts, he also had EPCOT , the center around which all
these oth er proje cts swirled, and now the overriding passion in his life. W alt
spent th e better part of the spri ng of 1966 on reconnaissance m issions for
his f uturistic city , first visiting the Monsanto of fices in St. Louis to discuss
what th at company might contribute to EPCOT and then boarding the
Gulfstream for a long tour that took him to a Gruen-designed s ix-acre mall
in R ochester , New Y ork, wh ich boasted three levels of u nder ground
parking; another shopping mall in Philadelphia; the new Nieman-Marcus
department store  in Dallas; a W estinghouse trash-disposal project in T ampa
that recy cled th e garbage; and the model city of Reston, V ir ginia, a fully
planned commu nity . He also ma de a detour to the Disney W orld site. “I’m
making this trip with some of my staf f in order to do some checking on the
latest de velopments in housing and shopping centers around the country ,”
he wrote a friend. “W e need to know what is good and what is bad about
some of the so-called modern concepts so we can take advantage of that in