# Página 43  
of li fe and som e of the luxurie s.” But even within the family Elias was
known f or his almost pathological frugality . W alt said his father walked
everywhere—“He was a very fast walker”—so he did not have to pay for
the streetcar . By another accoun t, some years later , when a nephew asked
him to come to Glendale, California, to help him build a house  there, Elias
stayed f or three  months and sp ent only a dollar by taking advantage of
realtors’ of fers of a free meal in exchange for looking at property . He
always p aid his bills in cash and never owed money to anyone, and he tried
to enfor ce the same fiscal stringency on his children. W alt clearly resented
having t o hand over his money to his father—on one occasion when he
found a twenty-dollar bill, he paid of f a fellow newsboy who threatened to
tell Elias—thoug h Roy said Eli as took the boys’ earnings only  because he
“just did n’ t believe in letting his  kids waste their money . ‘I’ll take care of it
for you—I’ll put it away and save it for you.’”
The frug ality , th e discipline, the taciturnity , and the reproachfulness had
always been constituents of E lias Disney’ s personality . The  man who
eschewed recreations, who never drank or swore and always said grace at
the t able, even t hough he now attended church infrequently , prided himself
on h is stern morality , put the fear of God into his children, an d never let
anyone d oubt that he was the head of the family , the one whom the Disneys
had to obey . W alt found him so  unapproachable and obdurate that, he said,
he scarc ely talked to him. As one close childhood acquaintanc e of W alt’ s
observed, “The whole Disney family seemed to me aloof and unbending.”
But in Kansas City Elias had gr own even more sullen and unresponsive
—a hard man hardened. He  had, in W alt’ s words, “be come very
conservative…There probably was a day when he was a driver , when he
was amb itious, but then he reached an age and then they start down that
little hill .” Elias,  at fifty-five, wa s heading rapidly down that hill . One could
see it in his politics. The man who had once chased popul ist W illiam
Jennings Bryan’ s buggy in Chicago so he could shake his hand and the man
who bo asted of his Socialism in Marceline had become a Republican,
though h e had not surrendered his belief in class warfare. One could see it
in hi s m ood. He had even given up the fiddle, his one indulgen ce, when he
cut his hand on a rope and was no longer able to finger the instrument.