# Página 570  
The fact was that W alt himself had had very little experience in live-
action films either—only the Alice comedies, The Reluctant Dragon,  and
Seversky’ s scenes in V ictory Thr ough  Air Power .  Though Stokowski’ s
scenes in Fantasia  and Seversky’ s in V ictory  h ad been shot o n soundstage
1, it was not fully equipped for live action, and the estimated cost of
refitting it for that purpose was  just under $200,000, or about a third the
entire co st of Dumbo.  I n fact, Jonathan Bell Lovelace was as worried about
the Dis neys’ i nexperience as  about the objections from the black
community; he suggested that they partner with one of the major studios.
Instead W alt contracted with Samuel Goldwyn, with who m he had
collaborated for  years on the aborted Hans Christian Andersen project and
to w hom he had as close a rel ationship as he had with any producer in
Hollywood with  the possible e xception of W alter W anger . Goldwyn also
lent the studio his cinematogra pher , Gregg T oland, who had shot Orson
W elles’ s legendary Citizen Kane.  The total cost of Goldwyn’ s services
would be $390,000—steep but necessary under the circumstances.
The film ing began in December 1944 in Phoenix, where the studio had
constructed a plantation and cot ton fields for outdoor scenes, and W alt left
for the location  to oversee wh at he called “atmospheric shots,” missing
Diane’ s birthday and just barely making it home in time for Christmas. So
eager was he to make a real mo vie amid the government work that he was
back again in February and then again in March. Even as the live action was
shot, the  bulk of the animation was going to have to wait; with its war
contracts, the studio could spare only a few animators, and the ones who did
work on the film proceeded slow ly . W ilfred Jackson and Perce P earce, who
directed in tandem—Jackson the  animation and Pearce the actors—took the
same de liberate approach to the live action, and W alt, obviously tense and
hoping to save money , wasn’ t pleased, scolding Jackson that they were
spending too much time on thes e scenes. Y et for all their care W alt had to
come to the rescue on the final day of shooting when Jackson discovered
that the scene in which Uncle R emus sang the film’ s signature song, “Zip-
A-Dee-Doo-Dah,” hadn’ t been properly blocked. “W e all sat  there in a
circle with the dollars running out, and nobody came up with anything,”
Jackson would recall. Then W al t suggested that they shoot Baskett in close-
up, cover the lig hts with cardboard save for a sliver of blue sky behind his