# Página 32  
playing more than I,” he said, recalling how the hoist and tackle that brother
Roy use d to enable W alt to fly gave way and sent W alt “right into the faces
of th e surprised audience.” In Marceline he was awaiting the  parade for
Buf falo Bill’ s visiting W ild W es t Show when Buf falo Bill him self stopped
his bugg y and invited W alt to join him. “I was mighty impre ssed,” W alt
later wrote. And in Marceline, after school one day , W alt coaxed his sister
Ruth to see their first motion pic ture—a life of Christ, as Ruth remembered
it. S he also rem embered her parents’ scolding when the children returned
home after dark, “in spite of W alt’ s telling me it was all right to go.”
But it was not just the homely appearance of Marceline or the cultural
rites of passage he experien ced there that W alt Disney loved and
remembered and would burnish  for the rest of his life; it was al so the spirit
of the commun ity . In Marceline people cared for one anothe r and were
tolerant of one another; even a black man who had gotten into a scuf fle with
some white roughs was exone rated by a local judge. “[E]ve rything was
done in a comm unity help,” W alt recalled. “One farmer wou ld help the
other , th ey’d go and help repair fences. They would do dif ferent things.” He
especially enjoyed the camarad erie of threshing season, when the wagons
would be hitched behind a big steam engine and rumble through the fields,
and the neighbors would gather to help, sleeping in the Disneys’ front yard,
and their wives would arrive too, all joining forces to cook for their men in
a scene that W alt would always think back on fondly .
Nor wa s it only the communi ty of neighbors he recalled. Living in
Marceline would be the first an d last time in W alt’ s life that t he extended
Disney f amily w ould be a prese nce, and he clearly basked in the attention.
His uncl e Mike Martin, who was an engineer on the train runni ng between
Marceline and Ft. Madison, Io wa, and who was, W alt said, “one of the
prides of my life,” would arrive, walking or hitchhiking the mile from the
station i n town, and come up to the farm carrying a striped bag of candy for
the child ren. Grandma Disney , a mischievous woman who in her old age
seemed to relish bedeviling her dour , straitlaced son, would also  come from
Ellis and stay . During one of their frequent walks she had W alt crawl under
a neighbor ’ s fence to pick some  turnips for her . (Elias was mortified by the