# Página 136  
began producing the Oswalds and finished the first one, Poor Papa,  early
that April in a little over two weeks. W alt surely recognized what a
tremendous opportunity was being af forded him—making a major cartoon
series fo r a major distributor—and how much a success would advance his
career . But neither Mintz nor Universal was satisfied with the cartoon, and
the latte r took the drastic step o f refusing to release it. Mintz thought there
were too  many competing chara cters in the cartoon and that Oswald needed
to be “young and snappy looking with a monocle,” not elongated with a
heavy round torso, gangly arms, short legs and oversized feet, which is how
W alt had had Iwerks draw him. In addition, Universal apparently
complained that there was no real story , just a string of gags.
W alt answered that he was disappointed himself and had already begun
reconceptualizing the character—“for get the monocle”—and making him
lighter a nd less bottom-heavy , but he also defended his approach. He did
not want Oswald to be just a “r abbit character animated and shown in the
same lig ht as the commonly known cat characters,” he said, meaning that
he did not want Oswald to be sim ply a peg for gags—the direction in which
Mintz h ad always pushed him and which Universal had now rejected.
Rather , he wanted to for ge Oswald into a distinctive personalit y , “to make
Oswald peculiarly and typically OSW ALD.” At the same time h e fended of f
criticism that there was insuf ficient narrative by saying that “[o]ur poorest
pictures have been the ones where we went into story detail” and asserting
that cartoons cannot really be “built like a feature picture” without losing
the constant stream of laughs.
What he was ar guing for was something new: gags that weren’ t  impasted
on Oswald, as g ags were in m ost cartoons, but instead arose or ganically
from him—from who he was. Even during the Alices, creating personality
had been a crusade of W alt’ s. When Freleng animated a kitten clinging to
the e dge of a washtub while being scrubbed, W alt beamed that Freleng had
made the kitten act like a child. “That’ s what I want to see in the pictures,”
he told the staf f . “I want the characters to be  s om ebody . I do n’ t want them
just to be a drawing.” One could debate whether W alt really i ncorporated
personality into his revivification of Oswald, but already by the second one
and the first to be released, T r olley T r oubles,  wh ich featured Oswald as a