# Página 495  
South A merican music for inspiration. And as in Rio, W alt was feted
—“dances and feasting and drinking,” Cottrell recalled. (Lillian observed
that he was much more recognized and fussed over in South A merica than
in his own country .) W alt, who cared more for work than for public acclaim,
was patient, visiting zoos and ranches, but at the end of the month he
announced to his staf f that he was leaving for Chile because he was
“goddamned tired of being dressed up like a gaucho and put on a horse.”
As W alt departed in a DC -3  for Santiago, taking the mail flight route that
he w ould depict in one of his South American shorts about a little mail
plane named Pedro, the remainder of the group divided, one contingent
heading to northern Ar gentina for more research, the other he ading to La
Paz, Bol ivia, an d the Lake T iticaca region. After a week in Chile W alt and
his crew went n orth, taking a b oat for a desultory trip along the coast to
Peru, Ecuador , and Colombia, w here they grabbed a launch and went thirty
miles upriver into the jungle. T hough the staf f commandeered a section of
the b oat to work  on the films, W alt later confessed to a friend that he was
“so worn out by the time we rea ched Chile that the boat trip home was the
only wa y I could get any rest.” They took the liner Santa Clara  from
Colombia up through the Pan ama Canal—where a local film exhibitor
ordered them of f the boat so that W alt could attend the P anama City
premiere of Fantasia —and then up t he Eastern Seaboard to New Y ork for
the premiere there of Dumbo,  th en back to Lo s Angeles by pla ne. “In all we
were go ne twelve weeks,” W alt wrote his old teacher Daisy Beck, “and
could ha ve staye d much longer but we were homesick for the k ids…and of
course they were tickled to see us come home, all of which m ade us very
happy .”
The one thing they did not discuss during the trip was the strike. On
August 1 2, the day after W alt left, the studio, under pressure fro m the Bank
of America, had submitted its list of layof fs to the union, which objected
that the layof fs discriminated a gainst the strikers. (There were 207 guild
members and 49 nonguild members on the list.) Both sides asked the
federal c onciliator , James F . Dewey , to review the matter , but Dewey was
hospitalized in Detroit at the time. Rumors and ill will were n ow swirling
through the studio, so Roy dec ided to fly to W ashington the next day to