# Página 200  
Y et inside, despite the growing staf f and growing plant, the old spirit of
camaraderie pre vailed. Many in Hollywood in the 1930s sought solace in
political community . The Disney employees found their comm unity in the
artistic enclave of Hyperion. O ne animator , obviously proud of the new
Disney cachet as the best anim ation studio, said that working there made
them all feel “a s if we were members of the same class at W est Point.”
Others recalled the fraternal atmosphere—the story sessions that frequently
lasted in to the night with W alt acting out Mickey or some char acter in the
Silly Sy mphonies, the practical jokes, the weekend picnics and g ames in the
park. “M y , how the day flew!” s aid one gagman, fondly . And pr esiding over
it all was W alt—as W ilfred Jack son said, “all day , every day , to talk with us
about whatever we were doing, each step of the way .”
At t wenty-nine,  with his sharp youthful features made even sh arper by
his t hinness and his still-unruly  mop of brown hair , he didn’ t look like the
head of a studio or the king of animation. He didn’ t dress like one either . No
more fashion-conscious in Los Angeles than he had been in Kansas City , he
usually wore knickers and long wool socks, “very gay and colorful things,”
said his secretary at the time, “with lots of design in them.” An d he almost
always wore a sweater rather than a jacket. When Roy W illiams, who
would become an animator and gagman, first applied for a job at the studio,
he w aited in W a lt’ s of fice—“not hing but a pile of junk in those days”—and
chatted with someone he thought was a messenger boy . When W illiams
finally s aid that  he would com e back another day since Mr . Disney was
obviously too busy to meet with him, he discovered that the me ssenger boy
was  W alt Disney . Still, for all his youthfulness and informality , he radiated a
sense of  authorit y and certitude. “W alt struck me as being absolutely sure of
himself,” said Ben Sharpsteen. “[H]e was positive about what h e was going
to do. He impressed me as bein g ‘young’—[but] the very fact that he was
several y ears yo unger than I and had been in the business several years less,
and yet had the ability to diagnose those requisites for better pictures,
impressed me very much.” An d with his confidence came an  ethos that
permeated the studio and gov erned it: that, in Grim Natwi ck’ s words,