# Página 469  
Even be fore the new financial pressures, strains had begun to emer ge
between W alt and the staf f. Pa rt of it was a function of size. In just five
years the studio had swelled from three hundred employee s to twelve
hundred, and where W alt had once known the name of everyone in his
employ and had interacted with many of them as well, it was impossible for
him to do so now . Indeed, at Burbank he was not only physical ly separated
—on one wing of the third floo r , unit 3H—from the animators on the first
floor , but anyone wanting to reach his of fice had to go up two flights of
stairs, down a corridor , and past two of fices, a reception room, and a
secretary’ s cubicle. (W alt was aware of the isolation. The nigh t before he
moved to Burbank he told Joe Grant that he had had a dream that he was
wandering through empty halls.) Part of it too was the competing claims on
his attention and the necessi ty to delegate. “W alt began to become
disengaged with the animations after Pinocchio, ” W ilfred Jackson recalled,
obviously for getting Fantasia.  “Up until Pinocchio,  absolutely nothing
happened without his being in on it. All the color models he  saw before
they got  okayed . All the rough animation. W e ran it for him before anything
moved i nto clean-up, and ink a nd paint.” But “in later years there was a
gradual withdraw al on W alt’ s p art of the intimate close workin g on all the
details of every department, an d he began to leave more and more to the
judgment of the animators, to th e judgment of the directors, and of the story
department. He controlled things along a broader base.”
But if W alt was, to the consterna tion of many of his staf f, less v isible and
less personally engaged, it was in fact as much by choice as by necessity .
Though he had loved the sense of community at Marceline and then at
Kansas City and later Hyperion, he had no time now for japer y or charm,
and in any case he was more dis trustful of associations once he had become
“W alt Disney”—more distrustful of what people wanted from him. One
production mana ger said that W alt “seemed to have trouble fully relating to
his employees. He kept his guard up, his employees at arm’ s length, and
was more touchy .” Dick Hueme r , the animator and storyman, r ecalled that
W alt sel dom engaged in small talk now and that it was tense being around
him. Animator Milt Kahl said that no one at Burbank would ever have
bar ged i n on W alt or palled around with him, though that was e xactly what
the animators had once done. Surprisingly , it was draconian Ro y who was