# Página 107  
Roy , who had b een working as a door -to-door vacuum cleaner salesman
before suf fering  a relapse of his tuberculosis and landing back in the
V eterans Hospit al in Sawtelle in what would later become the  W estwood
section of Los A ngeles, thought W alt was lazy and typically ov erconfident
(an “infection,” Roy called it) about his employment prospects, only
pretending to apply for jobs so that he could linger at the studios.
“T omorrow was  always going t o be the answer to all his prob lems,” Roy
said. “H e was hanging around this town and I kept saying to  him, ‘Why
don’ t you get a job?’ And he could have got a job, I’m sure, but he didn’ t
want a job.” But contrary to Roy ’ s impression, W alt was not jus t wandering
dreamily through studios. He  spent his first two months on those
expeditions trying to convince  someone to hire him and even had the
temerity to approach producers for advice. At the same time he
unsuccessfully trudged around Los Angeles with his print of Alice’ s
W onderland  hop ing to find a distributor . Some suggested he take the print
to N ew Y ork, where the distrib utors might be more receptive. Since W alt
did not have the money to go east himself to lobby , he sent the print to a
well-connected i ntermediary nam ed Jack Alicoate, who represented Lloyd’ s
Film Sto rage Corp., where the film had been held during the Laugh-O-
Gram dust-up with Pictorial, an d Alicoate, a generous man, c irculated it.
Grabbing at anything while it made the rounds and he awaited the
distributors’ ver dict, W alt revived his comic strip, “Mr . Geor ge’ s W ife,” and
pitched that too, without any more success than he was having with his
film. He even had new stationery printed: “W alt Disney Cartoonist.”
By September , already despair ing of getting a job as a director and
having no prospects on Alice,  he reverted to an old plan. One of the first
things he had done when he reached Los Angeles was to b uy a Pathé
camera at Peterson’ s Camera Exchange—“Cameras af fected him the way
alcohol af fects dipsomaniacs,” h is daughter Diane would write—and rig it
up with a seco ndhand motor . Now he visited the theater impresario
Alexander Pantages, a prominent vaudeville promoter who also owned
several of the la r ger motion picture houses in Los Angeles. W alt did not get
to see Pantages himself. He met  instead with a factotum outside  Pantages’ s
of fice, to whom he suggested a “special little joke reel” just like the
Newman Laugh-O-grams, only with “the name of Pantages splashed all