# Página 487  
had crea ted. “It hurt him,” W ard Kimball said of the strike, “b ecause guys
he h ad tr usted w ere letting him d own.” W alt saw himself as ben evolent, and
he thought that after he had kept nearly everyone on the payroll, even
during the Depression, the angry workers were ingrates for cal ling a strike
just because he demanded a secret ballot. It made no sense to him that they
were ch afing over a few relative ly minor grievances. The only explanation
that mad e sense  was that they— Hilberman, Sorrell, Babbitt, a nd others—
were Communists or Communist sympathizers bent on destroying W alt
Disney . “Commie sons-of-bitches” was how W alt put it.
This wo uld alw ays be the Disn ey version of the strike. The studio had
had no labor tro ubles until, as W alt later put it, the “Commies moved in.”
Roy con curred. “[M]oney was never the basic problem in thi s thing,” he
said, “as much as Communism .” In this view W alt, who was politically
naïve, was no do ubt fed by Gun ther Lessing. But he was also influenced by
right-wing gove rnment agencies that had a political stake in blaming
Communists for labor unrest. W alt said he showed his photogr aphs of the
strikers to the FBI and to representatives of the House Committee on Un-
American Activities, which inve stigated Communism, and was told that the
strikers w ere professional instigators. Anthony O’Rourke drafted a letter for
W alt’ s s ignature inviting Califor nia state senator Jack T enney , w ho chaired
a fa ct-finding committee on un-American activities in that state, to
investigate the af filiations of the  strike leaders, and the FBI had a dossier on
Herbert Sorrell listing him as a registered member of the Communist Party
despite his claims to the contrary . “I had a lot of people just hoping that it
was the end, you know?” W alt would say , meaning Communists wanting to
take W alt Disney down.
Though it was a typical antilab or tactic at the time to brand unions as
Communist to delegitimize t hem, W alt’ s belief that the SCG was
Communist-inspired was undoubtedly sincere. It also may no t have been
entirely wrong. Arthur Babbitt c ertainly wasn’ t a Communist, nor were any
of the other animators, but Dave Hilberman, the assistant who had begun
or ganizing the studio, had by his own admission been a member of the
Communist Part y and had even  traveled to Russia when he was a young
man. Moreover an FBI report called W illiam Pomerance, soon to be the