# Página 572  
The dim financial prospects no twithstanding, if W alt Disney had hoped
to re gain his art istic standing with the critics, he did not. Bosle y Crowther
in The New Y ork T imes  complained, “More and more, W alt Disney’ s
craftsmen have been loading their feature films with so-called ‘live action’
in p lace of the ir animated whimsies of the past, and by just those
proportions has the magic of these Disney films decreased.” Citing the ratio
of live action to animation at two to one, he concluded that is
“approximately the ratio of its mediocrity to its charm.” Still, the film
wound up grossing $3.3 million, better than the ARI estimate and more than
the $2.2 million gross of Make Mine Music.
The most scathing criticisms, however , weren’ t aesthetic; they were
political. The release of the film  had revived all the protests in the black
community that  had lain dorma nt while the film itself had lain dormant.
Many found abhorrent the idea of Uncle Remus happily servin g a wealthy
white family while he lived in a shanty . W alter White of t he NAACP
complained that  the film perpetuated the impression of an “idy llic master -
slave relationshi p which is a distortion of the facts.” Congress man Adam
Clayton Powell called it an “insult to minorities.” The Theatre  Chapter of
the National Negro Congress threw a picket line around the Palace Theatre
in N ew Y ork, w here the film was playing, and had its prot esters carry
placards reading, “W e fought for Uncle Sam, not Uncle T om.” Producer and
columnist Billy Rose accused W alt of having caved to corporate interests
and warned, “Y ou stopped bein g W alt Disney , and became W alt Disney ,
Inc.” An d he added, “Y ou know , chum, you’re not just another movie
producer . Y ou’re  the guy we brag about.” Even Maurice Rapf, who cowrote
the f ilm, said he  agreed with the  attackers. But the worst criticis m, certainly
the most  telling, may have been a remark in the B’nai B’rith Messenger ,  the
publication of the Jewish social and charitable or ganization, that Song of the
South  “ tallies with the reputation that Disney is making for himself as an
arch-reactionary .”
W alt mi ght have been mystified if he hadn’ t had the Communists to
blame. H e liked  the film, and he especially liked James Bask ett, who he
told his sister Ruth was “the bes t actor , I believe, to be discovered in years.”
Long after the film’ s release W alt stayed in contact with Ba skett, even