# Página 64  
and he drew in his truck. “I found out that the inside and outside of an
ambulance is as good a place to draw as any ,” he would remember .
Soliciting ideas from his fellow  troops, he began sending carto ons to Life
and Judge,  th e most popul ar humor magazines then, but he received only
yellow rejection  slips. He had better luck when a dischar ged French soldier
was assi gned to maintain their barracks and W alt copied the soldier ’ s Croix
de Guerre on his own leather windbreaker as a joke. Impressed by the gag,
many of his ba rracks mates wanted a Croix de Guerre painted on their
jackets, and W alt earned ten or f ifteen francs apiece for his work. He earned
more when one of the mates, a boy from Geor gia who was nic knamed the
Cracker , realized that the troop replacements coming through Neufchâteau
were willing to pay for sou venirs; he arranged with W alt to paint
camouflage on German helmets  the Cracker had rescued from  the dumps
outside t own. Th en the Cracker scuf fed them in the dirt, shot a hole in them
and sold them as authentic war booty , giving W alt a share of the money .
But for all the fun he seemed to be having in France, W alt was
nevertheless feeling increasingly homesick. “France is an interesting place,”
he wrote The McKinley V oice,  “bu t just the same I want to —” and he
inserted in the letter a cartoon of a man shouting, “OH! I want to go home
to my Mama.” He signed it “your old artist.” By this time, Ray and Roy had
already left the service and returned to Kansas City . W alt, though, despite
his homesickne ss, was considering re-upping with the Red Cross and
transferring to Albania, where t he salary was $150 a month— nearly three
times what he w as earning in F rance. In July he was reassigned to Paris,
and year s later he would say th at while watching Pershing moving out his
troops early that September , h e was suddenly seized by lon eliness and
promptly put in a request to be dischar ged. But that was another bit of
Disney drama. Even before Pershing left, W alt had already a pplied for a
dischar ge, on August 7, “to be sent home as soon as possible.”
While he waited in Paris, he was reunited with Russell Maas, who had
also been assigned there. The two teenagers decided that when they
returned home, they would pool their money to buy a scow and float down
the Miss issippi River like Huckleberry Finn. Meanwhile they each bought a
German shepher d puppy . W alt k ept his in his musette bag and carried him