# Página 706  
was to of fer the booklets for a limited time, but the system  proved so
ef ficient and popular that they became a staple of the park. A D ticket was
added in 1956, a nd an E ticket for the most popular rides in 19 59. E ticket
soon became slang to describe any experience that was especially exciting.
As these millions of dollars poured into the park—the company had a
gross revenue of $24.5 million in 1955, against $1 1 million the previous
year—W alt began brainstorming again. T o attract patrons at Christmastime,
when he feared a ttendance woul d slacken, he created a Mickey Mouse Club
Circus to run from late November through New Y ear ’ s. It had been a
lifelong ambition of his to own a circus, he wrote a friend, but when
attendance proved disappointing, he concluded that visitors to Disneyland
did not want to spend their precious time watching a circus for two hours,
and the venture wound up losing $125,000. Even before the circus ended its
run, W a lt had also come to another conclusion—that “it is not unique
enough to be in the park.”
Disneyland needed big attractions, thrilling attractions, attractions one
could find nowhere else. Just m onths after the opening, he w as meeting
with rep resentatives of a Swiss firm to install a $200,000 cable gondola, or
what W a lt calle d an Alpine Sk yway , that would traverse the p ark. At the
same time he w as meeting with executives from the Monsanto chemical
company to discuss a plastic House of T omorrow for the deficient
T omorrowland. (Monsanto had engineers at the Massachusetts Institute of
T echnology design the house, and the company was looking for a venue.)
“It i s possible t hat we could h andle the TV treatment of your House of
T omorrow in the same manner as we did the construction of
DISNEYLAND P ARK, ” W alt wrote M onsanto, explain ing how they could
document the phases of the house on Disneyland.  By January , Monsanto
and Disney had closed the deal. Meanwhile W alt had entrusted Bill Cottrell
with making an overall reappraisal of the park—Cottrell would revisit
Europe that fall for inspiration— and in May , W alt announced a $7.1 million
expansion, inclu ding the completion of T om Sawyer Island and  Storybook
Land, the Alpine Skyway , an Astro Jet ride, a Rainbow Caverns mine train
pegged to a T ru e-Life Adventu re titled The Living Desert,  and an Indian
village—all mad e possible, W alt told the Los Angeles T imes,  because the