# Página 460  
Stokowski seem ed to extol the savagery of nature at the expense of man.
(What T hompson missed was that W alt was extolling not so much nature as
his own  power to re-create the savagery of nature on screen.) In
Thompson’ s eyes, Disney’ s natu re was so overwhelming that man had no
choice b ut to succumb, and like  Raymond, she saw this as an a bdication of
responsibility that she obliquel y connected to the Nazi terror in Europe.
Along with Disney’ s other re cent work, the film was, she  concluded,
“cruel,” “brutal and brutalizing ,” and a “caricature of the Decline of the
W est.”
W alt pro fessed to be amused b y the controversy . T wo weeks after the
premiere he wrote a friend that the fray “couldn’ t have been sweeter”
because it generated so much publicity for the film. “The public responded
by lining  up at the box of fice with the result that our advance sale has been
simply terrific. W e’ve had practically a full house every day with Saturdays
and Sun days bei ng sold out for at least a month in advance.” He  said he left
New Y ork “walking on air .” As he headed to Los Angeles aboard the
T wentieth Century  f or the W est C oast premiere, he wrote Stokowski airily
brushing of f the criticisms of “A ve Maria” and announcing that he intended
to concentrate on adding some new segments to the film.
If an ything, the audience at th e Los Angeles opening at the  Carthay
Circle on January 29, 1941—it had been delayed by contractual problems in
securing the theater—was even  more enthusiastic than the one in New
Y ork, even though fewer celebrities attended. “The premiere audience was
unquestionably enraptured by the production as a whole,” Edwin Schallert,
a film reporter for the Los Angeles T imes,  wro te in  an article titled “Fantasia
Acclaimed as Cinema Masterpiece.” “The applause was enthusiastic during
the majo rity of the interludes a nd even broke in from time to time on the
action.” The film was, he said, “courageous beyond belief.” Arthur Miller ,
also writing for the T imes,  called it “an earthquake in m otion picture
history .” Directo r Cecil B. DeM ille, who had been so enchant ed by Snow
White,  said, “There is nothing in our earthly imaginings which can equal, let
alone surpass, what Disney has accomplished.”