# Página 1202  
societies, and even church of fice s, though to list them all would take several
pages at least. T he staf fs of eac h of them have my deepest gratitude. My
own local library , the Amagansett Free Library in the sublime community
of Amagansett, New Y ork, filled dozens of requests for books with
unflagging good cheer , often surprising me at how quickly the staf f
managed to locate even the most obscure volumes. For these ef forts, and for
not taking no for an answer , librarian Judith W olfe deserves special praise.
A basic hardship of writing a book over the time it took me to write this
one is financial. The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
provided a fellowship that lifted  that burden slightly . I am grateful for the
honor and the stipend.
Over the years my friends have listened to me talk about W alt Disney , too
kind to manifest the boredom they must have felt. Robert Solomon
provided guidance; David Suter  of fered insights; Elizabeth Bassine read the
manuscript with  a keen eye; Bob Spitz, a superb biographer in his own
right, commiser ated, advised, and supported; Craig Hof fman gave me a
place to  stay in California, a substitute family , and unwave ring moral
support; Ann and Ed Dorr were another home-away-from-ho me on my
many visits to L os Angeles when I was holed up in the arch ives; Marty
Kaplan a nd my colleagues at the Lear Center at the University of Southern
California provided intellectual sustenance; and Phil Rosenthal and Monica
Horan were good friends during my extended stays.
At Alfre d A. Knopf, my publishing home, my editor Jon Segal, with
whom I  have now done three books, was a model of ol d-fashioned
stewardship. He read, he probed, he encouraged, he promoted and
advocated, he lauded what he regarded as the book’ s strengths and sought to
have me  correct  what he saw as its deficiencies. His editing improved the
book immeasurably . He was also uncommonly patient, appreciating how
long it takes to gather data, especially when one does the research single-
handedly , as I do, and to craft a book. Above all, he cared both about the
quality o f the book and about its fate. In a world of corporate im placability ,
one couldn’ t ask for more.