# Página 49  
but several times, studying them carefully and then discussing his
technique. That changed the act. W alt Disney now played Chaplin. He
“could d o it to perfection,” a boyhood acquaintance remembered, even
recalling W alt “kicking that cig arette behind” himself in one o f Chaplin’ s
signature moves. W alt Pfeif fer played the Count, Chaplin’ s nemesis. “[W]e
always got a little more applause than someone else imitating Chaplin
because we were younger and it was a team of us,” W alt said.
But even if the act was amateurish and the applause as much for  youthful
ef fort as  for talent, W alt Disne y found himself hooked on performing—
hooked on the acknowledgment of performing as he had been  hooked in
Marceline on the acknowledgment of his drawing. These perfo rmances, he
said, “reacted on me like the taste of blood on a lion. In other words, I liked
acting! L iked th e applause, liked the cash prizes that were being handed to
us, liked the weird smells and weirder sights behind the scenes.” He even
began to  think of acting as a care er . In entertainment W alt Disney had found
another escape.  
Even be fore he began considering a career in show business,  school had
become an afterthought. As in Marceline, he had been placed in the same
class as his you nger sister , and both, due to the vicissitudes of the Kansas
City sch ool system, had been forced to repeat the second grade, which
meant h e was well over a year o lder than most of his classmates . The paper
route did  not help. W alt often d ozed in class, and teachers late r described
him as “courteous” but also “s leepy ,” “preoccupied,” and “seldom more
than lukewarm about the funny business of the three Rs.” One teacher
placed him in the “second dumbest” seat in the classroom. W alt, who was
clearly quick-witted, attributed his inattentiveness to his being creative
rather than uninterested and called himself a “dreamer .” A classmate said he
was alw ays imagining things. W alt admitted, “I’d sit in class and I’d be way
of f.”
He was also something of an i conoclast, even if it was only to attract
attention. He once caught a field mouse, tied a string around it, and brought