# Página 787  
During the hiatus after the fair ’ s first season, while W alt was being
showered with accolades, something else happened: he enjoyed his greatest
cinematic trium ph since Snow White.  As W alt told it to the Sherman
brothers, years earlier , most likely in 1943, he had seen Diane and Sharon
reading a book and “chuckling , really enjoying it.” A few nights later he
watched Lilly reading the same book and laughing, and she recommended
that W a lt read it. The book was Mary Poppins  by P . L. T ravers, which
chronicled the adventures of the magically empowered nanny of the title.
(Joe Gra nt had a dif ferent versio n: W alt first heard of the book when Grant
mentioned it to him after Grant’ s wife had read it to their children.) Shortly
thereafter W alt asked Roy to con tact T ravers directly rather than through an
agent to see if the rights were available and, if they were, to raise the
possibility of turning the book into a film. Though she was Aus tralian-born
and an English é migrée, during the war she was a single mother living with
her a dopted young son in a five-story walkup in New Y ork, and  she seemed
to b e angling for a way to go west, telling Roy that she was thinking of
relocating in Santa Fe or T ucson. Roy was cagey—he wasn’ t about to make
a c omm itment w ith the war rag ing—but he did tell T ravers th at W alt was
“intrigued” with Poppins  and suggested that she consider working with the
studio on an adaptation of the book.
In fa ct, the studio was clearly more interested in Mary Poppins  than it
was willing to l et on. Roy had been casual in his note to T rave rs, but then
he m et with he r in New Y ork, and W alt wrote her that he would fly to
Arizona to see her if she made the trip, and he added that “these stories
would be ideal material for a combination of flesh and blood  characters
with car toon.” R oy phoned her again in March, careful not to seem too
eager , ju st to let her know that th e studio was still considering working with
her . Not until 1946, when the war was over , did the studio and T ravers
reach agreement on the rights for $10,000—or at least Roy thought they had
reached agreem ent. The deal fell apart when T ravers insisted on script
approval, something W alt Disney was not about to grant anyone.
This was, however , only a harbinger of things to come. Thirteen years,
and the  creation of Disneyland, would pass before the studio again
contacted T rave rs, now sixty years old, about securing the rights. This time