# Página 729  
war—W alt conf ided to Greene that “I should confine my ef forts to things
that have more of a plus value”—but by 1952 Roy was encourag ing W alt to
put it back into production rather than make another anthology film,
provided they could keep the cost down to not more than doub le the price
per foot of a short and provided they released it in smaller first- run theaters
where it could p lay for weeks. The film missed its original tar get date, in
part bec ause it was being anima ted in the widescreen Cinemascope process,
which took so much more tim e than standard-format animat ions that it
doubled the cost of the backgrounds. Animators had to work six-day weeks
down th e stretch , and the film’ s  budget escalated to just under  $3 million.
But whe n it was released, it wa s another Disney success and a  temporary
rebuf f to the UP A style.  
There was another reason for the delay on Lady ,  besides the troubles with
Cinemascope. W alt had decided to take the animators of f the film for a
hiatus because he felt that they were becoming too involved with the detail
and had lost sigh t of the characters. He reassigned them to Sleeping Beauty
for six months, then put them back on Lady ,  w here, he said,  they “tackled
the project with new enthusiasm and whizzed right along to the finish.”
Even so, Lady ,  d espite its long  gestation and d espite the fact that it turned
out well, was essentially more make-work. Sleeping Beauty  was something
else. It was inte nded to be a magnum opus—“our most ambitious cartoon
feature, to date,” W alt wrote author Dodie Smith, whose book 101
Dalmatians  he had purchased for another a nimation. Sleeping Beauty  was
to b e a grand  last hurrah designed to demonstrate conclusively the
superiority of the Disney style, and in so doing, it would also constitute a
major assault on everything UP A represented.
As W alt would tell it, he gave h is animators only one instruction for the
film: “Make them [the charac ters] as real as possible, near  flesh-and-
blood.” T o achieve this, he sa id, the studio “used living models more
carefully than ever before.” In truth, however , W alt seemed to  have little
interest in the vaunted Disney  realism or even, for that matter , in the