# Página 730  
vaunted Disney story sense. Tho ugh he had entrusted the project to W ilfred
Jackson, and though Jackson and veteran storyman T ed Sears had reworked
the entire script after W alt declared himself dissatisfied with their first
attempt, W alt was much more fo cused on the visual design of the film than
on its story . He had hired the pa inter Eyvind Earle in 1951 as a background
artist (h e did one hundred backgrounds for Peter Pan ), an d Earle had
impressed W alt enough that W a lt asked him to provide inspirational art for
Sleeping Beauty .
“When I  first saw his stuf f, I almost fainted,” sketch artist V ance Gerry
said. Earle had filled every wall of his room from floor to c eiling with
detailed paintings heavily influenced by Dürer , V an Eyck, and Brueghel, but
with a modernist twist in that the images were more abstract and less
realistic and three-dimensional than typical Disney work. The layout artists
and animators were both impre ssed and depressed by Earle’ s paintings—
impressed by the quality of the work, depressed that they would have to
work within a style that many of them regarded as too cold, too flat, and too
modernist for a fairy tale. “I had to fight myself to make myself draw that
way ,” Ken Anderson said. But W alt was insistent, claiming that in the past
the i nspirational  art he commissioned had always been homogenized by the
animators. This time he wanted Earle’ s distinct vision on the screen. He told
Eric Larson, whose unit was th e first to work on the film, that  the picture
was to be a “mo ving illustration , the ultimate in animation.” He  added that
he didn’ t care how long it took.
It took a long time—longer in terms of steady , uninterrupted work than
any Disney animation since Snow White.  It  was started in 1951, was revi sed
in 1953, and wa s finally ready for W alt to see at an “overall story board
discussion” earl y in 1955. Milt Kahl blamed W alt for the delays. “He
wouldn’ t have story meetings,” Kahl said. “He wouldn’ t get the  damn thing
moving.” Kahl finally surmised  that W alt cared about everything but this
picture. Meanwhile the releas e date slipped from Christmas 1955 to
Christmas 1957 to Christmas 1958. In addition to W alt’ s inattention, one
problem was that he just didn’ t  have the staf f to do this kind of animation
anymore, especially since television was tying up three animation units.
Even aft er prom oting fifteen assistants to animators, the studio had to bring