# Página 317  
“madhouse,” an d one new artist wrote friends, “If this is not a crazy house,
then I don’ t know what is.” W alt didn’ t intervene, though he did complain
about th e pushpins in the ceiling , and he was forced to issue an edict against
“too much visiting from one roo m to another…I don’ t mean by  this that in
order to be conscientious you have to stick to your drawing board every
minute of the day; but if you want to get up and relax, don’ t do it at
someone else’ s expense.” More commonly , after some prank he would say ,
“Why don’ t you get some of that in the pictures?”
Animators and storymen found t wo more consolations from the pressures
—drink and sex. T ypically animators drank heavily , both to relieve their
tension and to loosen their in hibitions; alcoholism was practically an
occupational haz ard, though it m ay also have had something to  do with the
fact that  the kind of men who w ere attracted to animation were likely to be
emotionally stun ted and loners, lost in their own heads. Every afternoon at
four o’c lock a traf fic boy delivered beer to the animators, and they often
retired afterward to Leslie’ s Bar near the studio. “Maybe more ideas were
quenched than born in our fr equent forays to favorite bars for liquid
inspiration,” rec alled Jack Kinney . “But somehow the next day we’d pour
out new ideas like the bartender had poured drinks the night before.” As
they wer e boozy , they were also  randy . Occasionally someone would bring
a sta g film to the studio, and the animators would sit enthra lled. Other
times, to relieve the stress, they would spend hours drawing pornographic
cartoons featuring the Disney characters. Though an informal policy
forbade minglin g between male and female employees (a lar ge group of
young w omen worked nearby in ink and paint), the animators never lacked
female companionship—what Jack Kinney called “dipping your pen in
company ink.” (According to Kinney , animators who took their girls to
hotels o ften signed the register “Ben Sharpsteen,” using the na me of their
erstwhile supervisor , who was their antagonist.) One employ ee said he
knew of  at least thirty-five cou ples at the studio where “Cupid’ s arrows
struck hard and often.” Many of them wound up marrying, though casual
sex was the more likely outcome. Answering a questionnaire, Milt Kahl
listed his hobby as “sexual inte rcourse,” and Art Babbitt gained a certain
prestige among his colleagues for his reputation as a playboy .