# Página 185  
the w eek of Iwe rks’ s departure and met W alt, W alt was still w ounded and
angered by Iwerks’ s disloyalty and talked about little else.
Losing I werks w ould have been a blow in any case, but he was not the
only defector that week. Unsett led by Iwerks’ s departure and increasingly
upset him self at what he saw as W alt’ s high-handedness, Carl S talling, who
had known W alt since the Ka nsas City days, ambushed Roy the very
morning Iwerks  resigned and began complaining about his liability in the
recording studio and the royalties he expected from “Minnie’ s Y oo Hoo,” if
it we re p ublished. (Stalling had a point. W alt’ s attorney had advised that the
song be copyrig hted in W alt’ s na me because, Roy wrote W alt, “ it would not
be a good idea for us to have him [Stalling] having too many  strings on
things—at least until he takes a one hundred percent cooperatio n attitude.”)
Roy of fe red to buy Stalling’ s share in the recording studio, which seemed to
appease him, but he was back at Roy the next morning saying that he was
unhappy , that he couldn’ t get al ong with W alt, and that he felt, like Iwerks,
that he should le ave immediatel y . Roy thought Stalling had gotten “nasty ,”
and wh en the composer demanded his back pay and brandished legal
notices that he had written hims elf, Roy had the accounting of fice cut him a
check and sent him of f.
The disloyalty of Stalling and Iwerks, two men who had been with W alt
since virtually the beginning, hu rt W alt; so too did the fact of Iwerks’ s even
being wooed. It was unclear whether Powers had signed Iwerks as a way to
pressure W alt into renewing th e Mickey contract, as Powers h imself told
W alt he had, or whether , like  Mintz, Powers believed that W alt was
superfluous and that Iwerks was the real talent behind Mickey . Whichever it
was, W a lt seemed to be stung by the idea that Iwerks would be more highly
regarded than he was. T o him, the studio was  W alt Disney . R oy made a
point of  telling him that while t he studio staf f expressed shock at Iwerks’ s
and Stal ling’ s leaving, they had closed ranks behind W alt. Ben Sharpsteen
told Roy that “U S fellows who have been in this business so long, know
who is the ‘guts’ of this or ganiz ation…. [W]e know the dif ference of these
cartoons over the average ru n, is nothing more or less than W alt’ s
personality…. [N]obody could kid themselves that it was otherwise.” Roy