# Página 143  
mentioned, even  of fering to hel p advise him. As W alt was leaving, Mintz
barked, “Go on home to your w ife and come back and see me tomorrow
and let’ s get down to business.”
But W alt did no t go back to his hotel. Instead, he turned once  again to
Alicoate with a new plan: he would approach Universal and  promise to
make the Oswalds himself with out the middleman. It just so happened that
Alicoate had recently attended a boxing match with Manny Goldstein, a
Universal execu tive, who told Alicoate that Mintz was receiving $3,000 per
picture a nd that he would be interested in meeting with W alt. That same day
W alt me t with Goldstein in “som e big bug’ s of fice,” as W alt described it to
Roy . Un iversal had to deal with Mintz for the rest of the year be cause of the
newly signed contract, Goldstein told him. But he said they would be happy
to deal directly  with W alt th e following year since they “want good
pictures” and “they won’ t stand for Mr . Mintz cutting down costs in any
way that might l ower the standard.” In the meantime, if W alt could not find
a rapprochement with Mintz, Goldstein of fered to intervene for him. He
asked W alt, how ever , not to tell Mintz about their meeting. W al t wired Roy
late that night t hat he felt sure  “WE WILL COME OUT ALL  RIGHT
EVEN I F IT IS A BIT DISSILL USIONING  [ sic ] WE WERE SHOOTING
T OO HIGH.”  He added with a certain satisfaction that Hugh Harman and
Ham Hamilton,* two of t he traitors, would proba bly find themselves “in the
cold” because Universal was unlikely to take cartoons from an entirely new
staf f.
But W alt had underestimated Mintz and overestimated Universal. In
concluding his deal with the distributor , Mintz had granted W alt  no rights to
the char acter that W alt had cre ated, thus leaving W alt no recourse. That
Saturday at his of fice Mintz ma de W alt a final of fer . He would give W alt
$1,800 p er pict ure, up from $1 ,750, plus 50 percent of the profits from
Universal, but he presented a n ew and startling stipulation: Mintz would
take over the Disney or ganization, paying W alt and Roy each an additional
$200 a week as his employees. Angered and distraught, W alt refused, went
directly to Universal again, who  of fered to talk to Mintz, and hu rriedly fired
of f a telegram to Roy asking him to find out the intentions of the rest of the
staf f and to send  a check for $100 for additional expenses. He returned to