# Página 204  
pressing the distributor to treat the Disneys fairly . Roy tried to finesse the
issue by simply shipping cartoo ns earlier than Columbia wanted them to,
just as the Disneys had done wi th Mintz and Powers, and thus ending their
commitment soo ner , but Columbia refused to take delivery . By June the
studio w as payin g out $27,000 in  salaries each month, which wa s more than
the $ 14,000 in a dvances they were receiving for two cartoons each month
and the $9,000 in overages each month that Columbia was now remitting to
the studi o and that the studio w as sending to the Bank of America to retire
their loa n. “[U]n less something very drastic in the way of a cut in our salary
commitments is not made immediately ,” Geor ge Morris memoed W alt, “we
are going to find ourselves in a situation that is fraught with complications
so serio us tha t they will e f fect [ sic ] the whole s tructure of our
or ganization…if we are going to survive.”
Morris wasn’ t crying wolf. R oy was already negotiating with Joe
Schenck for a personal loan of $25,000, but the money wouldn’ t be
available until August, and in any case $14,000 would be dedicated to
paying of f previous commitments. So desperate was the situation that
Morris and Lessing had even proposed the unthinkable: selling of f an
interest in the studio. “The busin ess has become too big for W alt to cling to
his f aith that ‘Ro y will raise the  money some way ,’” Lessing wrote Roy . “It
is a bea utiful id ea to build up an ideal or ganization like W alt desires and
make a product par excellence for future distribution hopes; but there is
such a thing as running it into the ground…. It is absolutely e ssential that
you cheapen your product for the present.”
But if Lessing expected W alt to acquiesce in cheapening his product, he
had little understanding of wha t W alt Disney wanted or why W alt Disney
was in the anim ation business to begin with. In W alt’ s eyes, his studio was
not to be subject to the pressures of the world; it was his refuge from them
—a sacred place. And his anim ations could not be compromised; they had
to be better than anyone else’ s or he would not survive in the business; nor
would he want t o survive. Excellence was not only W alt’ s business strategy ,
it wa s the reason he ran the studio and the force that kept his personal world
intact. “If you want to know the real secret of W alt’ s success,” longtime
animator W ard Kimball would s ay , “it’ s that he never tried to m ake money .