# Página 503  
when it reopened on September 17 after the strike settlement. He was
pleasantly surprised to find that nonstrikers like Jack Kinney and Dick
Lundy s eemed to accept him an d were willing to work with him again, but
he also discover ed that his old of fice had been assigned to a no nstriker and
that his new of fice didn’ t have a Movieola. He received ass ignments to
reanimate two scenes that had  been unacceptably animated during the
strike, o ne for a Goofy cartoon  and another for a Donald Duck short, and
completed them  by November 1 . He asked for additional work and received
none, then was in his of fice on November 24 when a traf fic boy delivered a
notice that he w as being terminated in the latest retrenchment,  ef fective in
forty-five minutes. W alt claimed, disingenuously , that Babbitt was no
longer a “progressive” animator and that ever since Snow White  he had
relied too heavily on rotoscoping so that his work had gotten stif f. Asked
once why he paid Babbitt so well if his work was inferior , W alt said it was
because he needed to “throw confidence” to him. W alt was only slightly
more honest a few months later when Lessing was coaching him for a
deposition. Igno ring the union o r ganizing as the cause for dismi ssal, he said
that Babbitt was a “dif ficult person to work with.”
W alt may have thought he was finally rid of his nemesis. That January
Babbitt sailed for South America to work for an Ar gentine animation
company . He returned four months later and that summer took a job with
Leon Sc hlesinger at W arner Bros., then resigned and enlisted in the Marines
in N ovember . But before he did so, Babbitt had filed an u nfair labor
practice char ge with the NLRB against the Disney studio for his
termination. W alt must have known that the studio had little  chance of
winning, especially after several prominent animators testified that Babbitt
was amo ng the best in the busi ness. In November the trial exa miner ruled
against the studio, declaring that  W alt’ s stated reasons for laying  of f Babbitt
were “fa lse and without merit” and ordering W alt to reinstate him within
forty days of his dischar ge from the service with back pay .
But even with Babbitt tempo rarily gone and the strike presumably
settled, the studio roiled. Longtime friends became lifelong enemies. “It
used to be, ‘Hello, how are you?,’ pat you on the back,” one employee
recalled of the prestrike days. After the strike the tone of voice and