# Página 21  
the English Restoration in the late seventeenth century , a br anch of the
family , Protestan ts, moved to Ireland, settling in County Kilkenny , where,
Elias Disney would later bo ast, a Disney was “classed among the
intellectual and well-to-do of hi s time and age.” But the Disneys were also
ambitious and opportunistic, always searching for a better life. In July 1834,
a full decade before the potato famine that would trigger mass migrations,
Arundel Elias Disney , Elias Disney’ s grandfather , sold his holdings, took
his wife and tw o young children to Liverpool, and set out f or America
aboard the New Jersey  with his older brother Robert and Robert’ s wife and
their two children.
They had intended to settle in America, but Arundel Elias did not stay
there long. The next year he moved to the township of God erich in the
wilderness of southwestern On tario, Canada, just of f Lake Huron, and
bought 149 acres along the Maitland River . In time Arundel Elias built the
area’ s first grist mill and a sawmill, farmed his land, and fathered sixteen
children—eight boys and eight girls. In 1858 the eldest of them, twenty-
five-year -old Ke pple, who had come on the boat with his pare nts, married
another Irish immigrant named Mary Richardson and moved j ust north of
Goderich to Bluevale in Morris  T ownship, where he bought 1 00 acres of
land and built a  small pine cab in. There his first son, Elias, was born on
February 6, 1859.
Though he cleared the stony la nd and planted orchards, Kepple Disney
was a Disney , with airs and dreams, and not the kind of man inclined to stay
on a farm forever . He was tall, nearly six feet, and in his nephew’ s words
“as h andsome a man as you would ever meet.” For a religious man he was
also vain, sporting long black w hiskers, the ends of which he liked to twirl,
and jet-b lack oil ed hair , always well coifed. And he was restless—a trait he
would bequeath  to his most famous descendant as he bequeathe d his sense
of se lf-importan ce. When oil wa s struck nearby in what came to be known
as Oil Springs, Kepple rented out his farm, deposited his family with his
wife’ s sister , and joined a drillin g crew . He was gone for two y ears, during
which ti me the company struck  no oil. He returned to Bluevale and his
farm, only to be of f again, this time to drill salt wells. He returned a year