# Página 604  
rides in Chicago before he left for war . W alt thought of the trains as a
recreation and a way to decompress from the pressures of the studio. Lillian
once cla imed th at after the war W alt had come close to another breakdown
like the one he s uf fered in 1931, because he was working too ha rd, she said,
though the better explanation was that he was depressed fro m his work
showing so little result, even as he kept pressing ahead. “No matter what
plans I made for the weekend,” Lillian recalled, “we would always end up
at the studio. H e couldn’ t get i t out of his mind.” W alt was a little more
candid when he called the trains “just a hobby to get my mind of f my
problems.”
But as much as W alt Disney lov ed trains—he was always ur ging Lillian
to put her foot on the rail so she could feel the vibrations—and as much as
he n eeded a dist raction, they were clearly becoming more than a hobby . The
trains were turning into a replacement for animation, a new form of control
in a wor ld that was yielding less readily to him than it had in the golden
days. Ki mball said that he himself had planted the seed as ear ly as 1945,
when he  finishe d a full-scale ra ilroad on his two-acre plot in San Gabriel,
complete with nine hundred feet of narrow-gauge track, an operating
locomotive, and  a passenger ca r . He called it the Grizzly Flats Railroad,
after a sign he had once seen i n an abandoned Sierra logging town. W alt
attended the “steam up” party and got to play engineer as the  locomotive
crawled out of Kimball’ s engine house; he grinned broadly as he pulled the
whistle and clanged the bell. Kimball could see that he was ho oked on the
power and the thrill. Once W alt even brought home a train piston and
proudly displayed it on the dining room table.
Apparently wanting people to share his enthusiasm, W alt bought three of
his g randnephew s Lionel model train sets for Christmas 1947, t hen decided
to get one for himself too, justifying it on the grounds that his doctor told
him he needed a hobby . “I boug ht myself a birthday Christmas present,” he
wrote his sister Ruth, sounding almost exactly like a child, “—something
I’ve wan ted all my life—an electric train. Being a girl, you pro bably can’ t
understand how much I wanted one when I was a kid, but I’ve got one now
and wha t fun I’m having. I have it set up in one of the o uter rooms
adjoining my of fice so I can pla y with it in my spare moments. I t’ s a freight