# Página 458  
soaking up atmosphere for a possible feature based on the stories of
southern fabulis t Joel Chandler Harris, also known as Uncle Remus. His
New Y ork schedule included an address to a women’ s club, which, he
joked, “only goes to show what F ANT ASIA  has already done to me!” He
spent much of the time in the city , however , at the Broadway , conducting
runthroughs and  talking to the press. “I don’ t know how much money this
picture i s going to make or lose,” he told one reporter , hedging his bets.
“But the boys and I have ga ined some incalculable expe rience.” He
admitted he was taking a huge risk without a foreign market, but he felt he
was “expanding, opening up  new fields,” which was the aesthetic
equivalent, he said, of plowing profits back into the company .  T o another
reporter he was less grandiose a nd more edgy . W ith his leg thrown over one
of the theater chairs and his ha nd nervously running through his hair , he
declared, “W e’re selling entert ainment and that’ s the thing I’m hoping
Fantasia  does—entertain. I’m hoping, hoping, hoping.”
Rain fel l hard the entire day of t he premiere, November 13. Oddly , a man
who had  spent the last year co mpletely immersed in his own work and
scarcely acknowledging the tumult of the outside world, with the war
raging in Europe, and whose work served as a kind of refuge from that
tumult, would hold the premier e as a benefit for British W ar Relief. The
patronesses of the event included Mrs. Henry F . DuPont, w ife of the
chemical comp any mogul; Mrs. Henry Luce, wife of the  magazine
publisher; Mrs. W illiam Randolp h Hearst, wife of the newspaper titan; Mrs.
David S arnof f, w ife of the RCA  head; Mrs. W illiam K. V ander bilt, wife of
the phila nthropist; Mrs. Paul Felix W arbur g, wife of the investment banker;
and Mrs . Kermit Roosevelt, wife of the former president’ s son—which only
further signified how far W alt and the animated cartoon itsel f had come
since the early days of Mickey Mouse. Even W alt was impressed by the
turnout, writing his old teacher Daisy Beck like a starstruck fan about the
“gala premiere” and the “socialites” who attended.
By a ny m easure it was a triumph ant evening. The audience thrilled to the
film, and they t hrilled to the experience; thanks to Fantasoun d, the seats
actually vibrated when the music blasted. Bosley Crowther of The New Y ork
T imes,  wh o attended, could barely co ntain himself in his review the next