# Página 348  
But as the leng th of time in production dragged on, the budget was
ballooning. The y had been forc ed to take another loan from the Bank of
America for $630,000 in May 1936, and yet another for an additional
$650,000 in March 1937, to be  secured by the residual value of the short
subjects. (This was what W alt meant when he told a reporter that “I had to
mortgage everything I owned, including Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck
and eve rybody else,” to make Snow White. ) Now tensions with Roy
surfaced. “Roy was very brave  and manly until the costs passed over a
million,” W alt said a few years later . “He wasn’ t used to figures over a
hundred thousan d at that time. The extra cipher threw him. When costs
passed t he one and one-half million mark, Roy didn’ t even bat an eye. He
couldn’ t; he was paralyzed.” In fact, Roy did everything he could to press
W alt to reduce the budget, even inviting their Bank of America liaison, Joe
Rosenber g, to the studio to have a talk with him, which was the ultimate
ploy since W alt never dealt with the money men.
The Y al e-educated Rosenber g was new to Hollywood, thoug h he was
hardly a  tenderfo ot. As a young man, he had ridden a horse 320 miles from
Nevada to Arizona and forded the Colorado River to claim a job a friend
had prom ised, and he had worke d as a surveyor for a Mexican railroad and
as a  mining eng ineer before changing course and entering banking. When
Bank of America head Doc Gi annini assigned him to the Dis ney account
and to Snow White,  Ros enber g began making calls to Hollywood notables.
Some w arned him of f the pro ject, but producer W alter W anger , one of
W alt’ s polo cronies, told him, “ Joe, if Disney does this thing as well as I
know he ’ s going to do it, millions of people will love it.” Ros enber g later
said that was all he needed to hear . But now W alt was chafin g under the
financial strain. As Rosenber g later remembered it, when he c ame to the
studio ea rly in 1937 to plead with W alt, W alt groused that bankers were all
“a bunch of SOB’ s.” W alt deni ed he said it, insisting he just called them
“goddamn bankers.”
Unfortunately , as Snow White  i nched  forward, with W alt spending
$20,000 a week, he needed the “goddamn bankers.” Though Roy had
written W alt after the March loan that “we are confident it is suf ficient for
our purp oses; at least, until way late in the year ,” by Septembe r the studio