# Página 29  
lived wa s crudely constructed with whitewashed siding and green trim and
so cram ped that  the back parlor had to be converted into a bedroom for
Herbert and Ray . But surrounded by the willows, mock orange trees, silver
maples, cedars, lilacs, and dogwoods, it was, in the words of Eli as’ s aunt, “a
very hansome [ sic ] pla ce” with a front yard “like a park.” She was so
smitten that she debated whether she could ever return to Ellis.
W alt Di sney had  the same drea my vision of the farm as his g reat-aunt.
“Everything connected with M arceline was a thrill to us,” he once
reminisced. Coming from what he described as “crowded, smoky” Chicago,
he w as e specially fascinated by  the livestock and claimed that his time on
the farm  imbued  him with a special feeling toward animals th at he would
never lose. He o ften told about h erding the pigs by climbing on their backs,
riding th em into  the pond to root, and sometimes getting shrug ged of f into
the mud—a sight so comical that Elias invited guests to watch. Other times
he and a few other children would get up on an old horse named Charley
who, W a lt said, had “his own se nse of humor .” Charley headed toward the
orchard, forcing  the children to jump of f his back to avoid bein g hit by the
limbs. Everywhere W alt went he was trailed by a little Maltese terrier he
had been given, his first pet, tha t would snap at his heels and tear his socks.
He c ounted it a  “big tragedy” w hen the dog followed Roy into town one
day and never returned.
W alt Dis ney wo uld always speak of these as his halcyon days. He did not
start sch ool unti l he was nearly seven because, he said, there w as no one to
take him  and because his parents decided he could wait another year and
accompany his sister , Ruth, when she started school. “It wa s the most
embarrassing th ing [that] could happen to a fellow ,” he w ould later
complain, “that I had to practica lly start in school with my little sister who
was two years younger .” But school did not seem to have much appeal
anyway except as a stage on wh ich he could perform, and his one memory
from his  Marcel ine education was a T om Sawyerish escapade in which his
teacher asked the children to bring in switches to use on misbehaving
students and W alt surreptitiously laid a thick barrel stave on her desk. When
she queried who had brought it, W alt, knowing he would get a laugh from