# Página 287  
As far as the Disneys were co ncerned, between their rentals and their
royalties from merchandise, the studio had made roughly $600,000 in 1934,
which certainly  wasn’ t bad during a depression. “The first decade was
crawling—just b acon and eggs without the bacon,” Roy would  later say of
the studio’ s early years. “Then the second decade when the country was in
the doldrums—we were relatively prosperous, and while we were in small
time…small money , we could pay all our bills, pay all our sal aries. Up to
that tim e we never drew a regular salary .” But W alt recognized that if he
hoped to continue to grow the studio, shorts had little future. “The short
subject was just a filler on any program,” he would recall d ismissively .
“And so I just felt I had to diversify my business and get into these other
things, and it would give me a better chance.” The “other thin gs” he was
then considering daunted even his own colleagues. He had decid ed to make
a full-length feature cartoon.
While it  was true that shorts couldn’ t generate enough profits, economic
considerations w ere, as always for W alt Disney , only part of th e reason he
was changing course. He also wanted the aesthetic challenge—to stay ahead
of the pack and remain better than everyone else, which was no w a source
of enormous pride. Even more personally , the deeper into his fantasy world
he d rew , the mo re fully realized he knew it had to be. Like his old Alice
character , he needed to construct a better imaginative world in which to
escape.
“I think that W alt was impatient with the restrictions of the cartoon,” Ken
Anderson, an art director at the  time, said. “He strived for more and more
realism, more naturalism in the features.” Anderson remembered keeping a
notebook of camera angles from  live-action movies he had see n, and W alt
being so  impres sed that he orde red others to keep similar note s. “He was
always aiming at exceeding the  limitations of the medium.” W alt admitted
as much himself. “[W]e sensed we had gone about as far as we could in the
short subject field without getting ourselves into a rut,” he wrote in 1941.
“W e nee ded this  new adventure, this ‘kick in the pants,’ to jar loose some
new enth usiasm and inspiration.” In ef fect, W alt wanted to rattl e the studio
with an earthquake.