# Página 611  
confidence and repeatedly rema rked that with any luck the picture should
be brought in at a reasonable budget.”
The sho oting began on July 4, 1949, in “fantastically w onderful
sunshine,” the Disneys’ British agent, Cyril James, wrote Roy . The weather
seemed to portend a relatively  stress-free production. W alt, despite the
professions of supervision, visi ted the set at the Denham Studios outside
London only occasionally , and director Byron Haskin’ s agent  wrote Jack
Lavin, the studio talent coor dinator , that W alt “seems pleased with
everything.” W ith the film sailing along calmly , W alt had provis ions sent to
the Dorchester Hotel in London  (two cases of Johnnie W alker Black Label
whiskey , six cans of bacon, four cans of corned beef hash, Spam, and
franks, s ix cans  of boiled ham,  and twenty-four cans of his favorite dish,
chili and beans) and played tourist with his family . When they tired of
London, they visited Ireland for two days, then spent three weeks in France,
where W alt rev isited the sites of his Red Cross service, then crossed to
Switzerland.
After five weeks in all, he and the family left for America, b ut in yet
another sign of W alt’ s restlessn ess, he returned to England a month and a
half later , this time without Lillian or the girls, as the production rolled to its
climax. The only suspense had b een whether the British government would
issue a work permit to Bobby Driscoll, who was to star in the film, since a
British law prohibited the emplo yment of actors under thirteen y ears of age.
Frantic upon learning this, Fre d Leahy arranged to have the Educational
Bureau a gree to “look the other way” during the filming, while D riscoll was
to say that he was only in Engla nd on a visit. But when Driscoll was forced
to stay longer than had been ex pected, due lar gely to weather delays, the
crew worried that the police might issue a summons, so Driscoll was
shuttled between the first unit (doing the principal photography) and, when
that unit was setting up, the third unit (usually assigned to do th e scenes in
which ac tors were not necessary). That way Driscoll’ s time was maximized,
though it meant that all his scenes had to be shot first. In the end Driscoll’ s
parents and the studio were both fined for violating the work permit law ,
but it was a small price to pay to complete the photography .