# Página 560  
had poa ched Di sney artists, as V an Beuren had lured Burt Gillett and Pat
Powers had lured Ub Iwerks, hoping to capture the Disney magic. But the
result w as always the same. O ne might imitate Disney , but one couldn’ t
match h im. As Paul T erry admitted: “Disney is the T if fany of th is business,
and we’re the W oolworth’ s.”
One reason for this success wa s money . Disney was spending roughly
$40,000 per short while W ar ner Bros., MGM, and Paramount were
spending half that. Another rea son was Disney’ s initial monopoly on the
three-color T echnicolor process that made his cartoons look so much better
than any one else ’ s. But a much greater reason was the old disparity between
the t alent at the Disney studio and the talent everywhere else an d, what had
helped draw that talent, between the commitment at the Disney  studio and
the c ommitment  everywhere else. If animation was a sacred o bligation to
W alt Di sney , a way to reimagi ne the world, for the others it had always
been jus t a product. “Making cartoons is like delivering milk” was how one
of P aul T erry’ s a nimators descri bed T erry’ s philosophy . “People  expect the
bottles a t the door every mornin g. If you miss a morning, people get upset. I
see to it that we don’ t miss a morning and nobody gets upset .” Similarly
Dick Huemer said of Charles Mintz, “He didn’ t care. He wasn’ t really
interested much in the pictures. He was just a promoter , he bankrolled it.”
Mintz once gathered his staf f, s howed them a Fleischer cartoon about two
romancing swans, and then ordered his animators to make a cartoon like it
with no more t han two characters. At all the studios save Disney the
cartoons were still thrown into p roduction. W alter Lantz at Universal didn’ t
even have a story department, j ust a bulletin board on which a story idea
would be pinned. Indeed, the on ly studio that harbored dreams of matching
Disney , that of Max and Dave Fleischer , was hopelessly out of its depth
when it tried, and by the early 1 940s it had been forced to sell its operation
to P aramount after having decamped to Florida and having borrowed
heavily from that company to make its features.
But after all the  Disney studio’ s years of unchallenged preeminence, the
war created opportunities for its competitors, not only because Disney’ s
own animation was stagnating u nder the press of government b usiness but
because many of the rival anim ators, some of them refugees from Disney ,