# Página 86  
profits with his ads, declined. A. V . Cauger did, however , order one hundred
sheets of celluloid—discards, W alt would say—for W alt’ s experiments and
let him rent a sm all studio in a vacant house on a dirt hillock, eig hteen steps
up as Cauger rem embered it, next to the Film Ad Co. Here W alt would now
retire, after work each day and in his spare time, to draw .  
But he was not just drawing. Still as much an opportunist as an artist, he
was beginning to think of branching out into business for himself, using his
Film Ad job to subsidize his scheme. In the fall, with three hun dred dollars
in s avings, he purchased a U niversal camera and a tripod and began
advertising again  for prospective animators whom he would pay , as he paid
Ising, in  experie nce, promising that if the project were a success, he would
give the m jobs in his new stud io. Several began stopping by the house at
night and joining in the drawin g. Meanwhile, to make additional money ,
W alt and Fred H arman, who now worked with his brother Hugh  and W alt at
the Film Ad Co., bought a secondhand Model T and trolled for jobs
shooting news footage with the  Universal camera. “Our sights,” Harman
said, “were set for long-range money and fame.” They got an assignment
from Pa thé filming the American Legion convention late that October and
early No vember—the father of a friend of W alt’ s had an of fice across the
street from which W alt could film—and then, on a sudden inspiration,
rented a plane to photograph  the convention from above, but W alt
underexposed the film and it came back black. “Our hopes for fast riches
were wiped out,” Harman lamented.
W alt was not d eterred. These ef forts were, whatever his dreams of
financial glory , just extracurricu lar activities to help support his real project
that fall, one m ore grandiose than the short animations and newsreels.
Influenced by New Y ork anima tor Paul T erry’ s spoofs of Ae sop’ s fables
called T erry’ s Fables, which ha d premiered in June, W alt deci ded that his
animations would spoof fairy tales by displacing them into a modern
context and giving them a contemporary slant. He proposed doing “Red
Riding H ood,” though it is unclear whether he animated this one first or a