# Página 301  
previously rejected him. Never theless T ed Sears, a friend of Natwick’ s,
intervened, and Natwick, after  a two-hour tour of the studio conducted
personally by W alt, was tendered a contract.
Perhaps the most important addition among the veterans was a lar ge bear
of a  man who had been born in  Y onkers, New Y ork, of a Ukrainian father
and a Polish mother . W ith his bu shy mustache, thick brows, and unruly hair ,
Vladimir “Bill” T ytla looked lik e the Russian dictator Stalin, and at parties
he would pound his chest with one hand, hoist a vodka in the other , and
exclaim, “I’m a Cossack!” It wasn’ t just a pose—it was also an attitude of
work. Grim Natwick said that T ytla “hovered over his drawing board like a
giant vu lture pro tecting a nest f illed with golden eggs. He wa s an intense
worker—eager , nervous, absorbed.” Sometimes he drew with such focus
and pass ion that  his pencil tore holes in the paper . What made T ytla special
was that  he transferred his feroc ity to the screen. His work at th e Paul T erry
studio w as so distinctive that W alt could identify which scenes T ytla drew ,
and whe n Roy visited New Y or k in May 1933, he took T ytla to dinner in
hopes of luring him west. “He expresses a keen desire to have the
opportunity to do ‘better work,’” Roy wrote W alt, but he wouldn’ t leave
T erry without a “lucrative of fer .”
While T ytla played hard to get , the Disneys played their own  hardball.
Ben Sharpsteen,  who was in char ge of recruiting and training, wrote T ytla
in D ecember that the studio h ad had dif ficulty indoctrinating animators
from other studios in the Disney style and that “to bring a stranger in
without rating his ability with the others, would be an injustice to members
of o ur own an imating staf f.” He of fered $100 a week, which, for an
animator of T ytla’ s stature, was clearly unacceptable. Still, as Snow White
inched c loser to realization, Roy  kept wooing him over the next year , taking
T ytla to  dinner whenever Roy visited New Y ork. T ytla describ ed it as an
“on-again of f-ag ain romance,” until W alt and Roy convinced hi m to fly out
to California and see their facilities. It was in November 1934, after an
eighteen-hour fl ight and a studio tour , that he finally surrendered to the
Disney onslaught. His arrival created what Don Graham, the studio’ s
resident art instructor , labeled a new school of animation, Forces and
Forms, p redicated on the fact that T ytla conveyed power throug h the thrust