# Página 329  
what he miscons trues, due to hi s deafness, as criticisms and wh o had often
been used interchangeably with Dopey , was jettisoned for Sneezy .
W ith the  deadline rapidly approaching, W alt knew he needed help in
establishing the dwarfs, some handle for the animators to grasp. As early as
the s ummer of 1 935 he had asked the gravel-voiced character actor James
Gleason, one of W alt’ s polo  compatriots, if he would recommend
comedians who could be used to help shape the dwarfs by serving as
models. In January 1936, appar ently at W ard Kimball’ s suggestion, a short
burlesque come dian named Eddie Collins came to the studio to perform
pantomimes as Dopey in the hopes of inspiring the animators. “[H]e did all
these inspiration al movements with his tongue,” Kimball re membered,
“which was great for the soup sequence.” W alt sent other animators to see
Joe Jackson and His Bicycle for ideas on how the dwarfs might move. That
same month actors were bein g auditioned for the dwarfs’ voices. In
February Fred Moore and Bill T ytla produced a model sheet, which was a
kind of templat e for the anima tors. (W alt always took a malic ious joy in
pairing o pposites, as he did with  the fiery T ytla and the phlegmatic Moore,
hoping that there might be sparks.) But it wasn’ t until November , little more
than a year bef ore the feature was now scheduled to open, that W alt,
realizing that time was running out and that he had still not conquered the
problem, assembled his staf f to discuss the dwarfs yet again.
There was clearly a sense of ur gency . Throughout November and
December a group of storymen and animators met regularly f or hours at
night in Projecti on Room No. 4 down the hall from W alt’ s of fice, frequently
with W a lt in attendance, with the express purpose, as Dave Hand told them,
of w orking up the “characteris tics of the dwarfs.” “There are seven of
them,” he warned, “and it is indeed dif ficult to get a hold o f each.” As
always W alt wo uld act out the dwarfs at these sessions, often becoming so
involved that, Thomas and Johnston said, “he for got we were  there.” But
despite W alt’ s performances and despite his repeated descriptions, the
animators still wrestled with how to make each dwarf emotionally and
psychologically unique while making them all look basically alike. “[T]he
animators themselves don’ t know yet how to draw them after working all