# Página 260  
the s hutter . And then, after the f ilm had been processed, the car toon would
be previ ewed at  a nearby theater , usually on an evening when there was a
full hous e. Animators were expected to attend and engage in a postmortem
with W alt either in the lobby or on the sidewalk outside the theater—yet
another terrifyin g ordeal if the  audience hadn’ t been enthusiastic. One
embarrassed dir ector slunk out to avoid W alt and raced to the parking lot,
only to find him there fuming. “ Even though he was blocking t raf fic in the
parking lot,” Sharpsteen recalled, “W alt stood there and let him  know how
unhappy he was with the picture!”
The enti re proce ss, from a carto on’ s inception to its preview , could take
as li ttle a s three months, which was in fact the typical interval, or as long as
two yea rs, but time never mattered to W alt except as an anno yance. The
only thing that mattered to him was that he had done everything in his
power to make the cartoon as excellent as it could be.
III
It w as a burden.  The demands n ot only in producing the animations but in
reeducating the animators and reinventing the entire process would have
been enormous even if W alt hadn’ t been the workaholic he was. T o stave
of f another breakdown, he tried to maintain his new exercise schedule,
continuing to ride on horseback  with Lillian, occasionally returning early
from the studio to do so, and to swim and ice skate. At one point he even
took dancing lessons with Lillian (“in spite of all your work, I’m still a
lousy dancer ,” he wrote his inst ructor self-deprecatingly years l ater) and at
another point boxing lessons. Y et these were concessions, wrung grudgingly
from him. Once gregarious and outgoing, he now channeled his enthusiasm
into the studio a nd was virtually withdrawn outside it. He socialized even
less than before, claiming that it “took too much of one’ s ener gy” and
saying th at he preferred to get a “good night’ s sleep as it leaves me in better
condition in the morning to carry on the work.” Sometimes he w ould invite
a f ew of the ani mators—Fred M oore, Ham Luske, Norm Fer guson—to the
house on L yric A venue for a backyard game of badminton, but these
occasions were rare and gradually petered out, one attendee said, because