# Página 796  
was unique and that he couldn’ t imagine having a park that wasn’ t close
enough for him to supervise, in 1958 he and NBC, apparently re alizing that
it h ad missed out on Disney land, jointly commissioned SRI to do a
feasibility study for a park of f the New Jersey T urnpike in a mar shland near
Secaucus. The report concluded  that it would require 76,000 hours of ride
capacity , as compared to 46,00 0 at Disneyland at the time; that it could
operate for only 120 days annually given the weather; that it would cost
$46.4 million; and that it would  yield a low return on the inve stment that
“does not point to a profitable venture.” W alt had his own doubt s. He didn’ t
feel that  the New Y ork area wo uld support a theme park because, he told
Harrison Price, “ that  audience is not responsive.” Other of fers came from
the new Brazilian capital of Brasilia—“W alt is interested and might come to
Brazil personall y if the whole thing looks promising,” a Disne y executive
told of ficials—Niagara Falls; Monterey , California; and Kansas City .
The most promising prospect w as a plan for downtown St. Louis, which
W alt apparently had encouraged when a commission planning the city’ s
two-hundredth anniversary asked if the studio might produce a film for the
occasion, and W alt countered with a suggestion for a development. Of ficials
pounced on the idea. A deleg ation from St. Louis, including the city’ s
mayor , m et with  W alt at the studio in March 1963, after which W alt called
in H arrison Price to conduct yet  another feasibility study . T wo months later
W alt visited St. Louis himself w ith Lillian, Sharon, and Sharon’ s husband,
Robert Brown, to assess the r edevelopment area, called the Riverfront
Zone, an d he made another visit  in November , at which time he laid out his
terms: the local Civic Center Re development Corporation would provide a
building to house the attractions , and Disney would provide the  attractions
themselves, which the Disney company would own and control. By the end
of th e month he  was meeting with WED Imagineers to discu ss potential
exhibits: a Circarama film on St . Louis, an Audio-Animatronic exhibition, a
New Or leans French district, a haunted house, an Audubon b ird room, a
Davy Crockett cave, and a pirate ship walk-through.
W alt continued to confer both with St. Louis of ficials and with his
Imagineers thro ugh the spring, and in July The New Y ork T imes  reported
that Disney had finally committ ed to a second Disneyland, an indoor park,