# Página 94  
signing and that the remaining $1 1,000 was not due until that de livery date,
almost eighteen  months away . This meant, in ef fect, that th e company
would b e worki ng for nothing w ith only the prospect of a payout. (Mace,
perhaps recogniz ing the corner i nto which he had painted the company , left
Laugh-O-Gram almost immediately upon his return to Kansas City .) W alt
had to parlay that promise into the repayment of old debts and the
generation of new funds. U pon the signing on September 16 he
immediately assigned the contr act to Fred Schmeltz, the owne r of a local
hardware store who had advance d W alt money and equipment, to repay him
and, in Schmeltz’ s capacity as trustee, to repay the $2,500 that Laugh-O-
Gram al ready owed Mrs. Cowles as well as smaller sums the company
owed as back pay to its employees.
Early that September , even befo re the Pictorial deal had been finalized,
W alt had taken out ads in the Kansas City Journal  and the Post  seeking
another scenario  writer (he advertised in both the men’ s an d women’ s
sections) and girls “with artistic  ability for mounting pictures, c artooning.”
Now that he ha d a contract in  hand, that November he also  convinced
Iwwerks to leave the Film Ad Co. and join him to do the lette ring for the
titles and some animation. In a sign of confidence, he grandly of fered
Iwwerks fifty dollars a week.
This was more of W alt’ s dizzy unreality . For all of his stud ying and
experimenting, no one at Laugh-O-Gram really knew very much about
animation, at least not enough f or them to function as a studio. “[O]ur only
study w as the Lutz book,” said Hugh Harman, “that plus Paul T erry’ s
films…. W e used to get them a t the exchange, through a girl who worked
there…and then  take scissors an d clip out maybe fifty or seventy-five feet
[to s crutinize]…. W e learned a l ot from T erry .” Similarly , W alt P feif fer said
he would get a new Krazy Kat cartoon, bring it to the studio, and run it so
that the animato rs could determine how the New Y ork professionals did it.
And it was not  only animation technique they lacked but basic drawing
skills as well. At  one point W alt  even held an art class because, a ccording to
Rudy Ising, “W alt had the idea that maybe we should learn to draw a little
better .”