# Página 288  
The idea  of producing a feature, he once said, first occurred to him when
he w as i n Europe and saw audiences sitting through a program of five or six
Mickey Mouse cartoons in a row . The problem with this recollection is that
three fu ll years before he would visit Europe, he was already laying the
groundwork for a feature, even d ropping hints to the press. As early as June
1932 Roy was inquiring about the availability of the rights to Alice in
W onderland,  whi ch, he learned, was in the p ublic domain. While the Alice
project slowly advanced, M. L incoln Schuster of the Simon & Schuster
publishing house  was prodding W alt to make a film of a Felix S alten novel,
first pub lished in Europe in 192 3 and issued in the United States in 1928,
titled Bambi: A Life i n the W oods,  about the life cycle of a deer . Though
Sidney Franklin, one of the m ost highly regarded directors at Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer , acquired the rights to the novel while W alt dithered,
Joseph S chenck of United Artists leaped in, of fering to broker  an alliance
between Disney and Franklin. “Schenck talked like they would finance it
for distr ibution and a share of the profits,” Roy wrote W alt eagerly from
New Y o rk. “W o uld sure like to see you attempt a feature, and I believe it is
highly d esirable for that feature to be handled by the same sour ce handling
our othe r product.” Roy ur ged W alt to contact Franklin, who was apparently
willing to cooperate, and get the ball rolling for a fall 1934 release. W alt
evidently did talk to Franklin, though the project stalled, most likely
because W alt feared the studio  did not yet have the artistic c apability to
animate so realistic a story .
Meanwhile, W alt was being inundated with suggestions for feature
projects he could tackle. The old silent film director and actor Hobart
Bosworth wrote  W alt, “Y ou can’ t carry the animal and bird, and animated
trees, flowers, etc. much farther , ” and thought he should try “all of the elfin,
goblin, faery , fay [ sic ] spr ite s tories o f all the folk lore of all lands, in your
medium!” Cart oonist James Thurber recommended that W alt animate
Homer ’ s Iliad  or Odyssey .  Douglas Fairbanks had discussed the possibility
of their collaborating on Gulliver ’ s T ravels.  And as early as April 1933
Fairbanks’ s wif e, actress Mary Pickford, was pressing W a lt to do a
combined live-action/animation of Alice in W onderland.  Pickford even
of fered to guarantee an adva nce equal to seven of his cartoons and
underwrite the production costs, but W alt vacillated, fearing “great