# Página 507  
straightforwardly Four Methods of Flush Riveting,  which he showed to
John Grierson, a documentary filmmaker who was attending the conference
in his capacity as film commissioner of Canada. Shortly afterward W alt
landed his first contract, from Grierson, for a film on the fundamentals of
flush riveting, an instructional film on an antitank rifle, and four shorts
promoting the sale of Canadian war bonds. The riveting film was budgeted
at b etween $4,000 and $5,000,  a far cry from what the studio had been
paying f or its own shorts, but t hen the animation was a far cry from what
the studio had b een producing. W alt was relying on recycled scenes from
old carto ons and on using more  limited animation—that is, animation with
less movement than that in his features and shorts.
In May 1941, w ith the strike looming, he felt a new ur gency in getting
government work, and the studio stepped up its ef forts. W alt dispatched
V ern Caldwell of the training department to W ashington wit h the Flush
Riveting  fi lm and had him take it from  government of fice to government
of fice, i ncluding the of fices of General Geor ge Marshall and the general
army sta f f. W al t continued to i nsist that the company was ju st doing its
patriotic duty , but the fact was t hat the studio needed the contracts, if only
to keep the anim ators working and to of fset the overhead. Throughout the
summer and into the fall, W alt kept trolling for business with the lure of the
Canadian rivetin g film, which, according to Bob Carr , the Ca nadians had
extolled as “Miraculous! Best we ever saw!” In November , a fter he had
returned from South America,  W alt was meeting with mem bers of the
defense committee and had talked with an advertising man an d adviser to
the Lend Lease Food Division of the Department of Agriculture named
Henry Sell about making mov ies promoting the program and possibly
making other promotional films for several of Sell’ s commer cial clients,
something W alt had previously refrained from doing because he thought it
demeaning.
When Pearl Harbor was attack ed, then, W alt Disney was alre ady deep
into government work and was about to get in much deeper . Early the very
next evening, December 8, he received a call from a navy of ficial of fering
the s tudio a con tract for twenty films on aircraft and warship id entification
at a total cost of $90,000, an d shortly thereafter the Navy Department