# Página 326  
Snow White  belonged to W a lt Disney , just as W alt Disney belonged to Snow
White.  
After months of preliminary animation, roughing out the action, and pencil
testing, the artists began the fi nal animation that summer of 1936* with
almost a s much trepidation as W alt was displaying in giving final approval
to th e story . Bill  T ytla said that the animators were “all walkin g on tiptoes
on t hat one. W e didn’ t know what to expect. W e were full of all kinds of
emotions.” Everyone realized th at they were embarking on something new
and important. “There is a lot of stuf f you can get by with in shorts that you
cannot get by with here,” T ytla told an action analysis class that December ,
“and W a lt won’ t let the poor stuf f get by…. He has mentioned  that certain
business in sweatbox would be d amned good for the shorts, but it would not
do for the feature.” Drawings for shorts were predicated, he said, on the
simple s hape of the ball, which, when inked, yielded a “hard, in cisive line.”
For the feature there was a need for texture—“texture of the fles h, the jowls
of the dwarfs, the drawing into the eyes, the mouth, the texture of the hair
and of old cloth.” T ytla suggeste d that they even try to get perso nality in the
texture of the dw arf ’ s hands. And he added menacingly , “[T]h ey are strict
with me in getting what they want—and that will go all the wa y down the
line.” T e d Sears wrote a memo  expressing similar concerns on the story
side. Th e feature  required subtlety , but there was always the danger of being
too sub tle: “I think they’re afraid that this subtleness cann ot be fully
brought out in a cartoon character .” At the same time Ham Luske warned
putative in-betweeners and assistants that if they approached  the feature
with too  much reverence and reservation, it would suf fer . “The  one thing I
don’ t wa nt you to do is figure that this is a feature—and—consequently that
we mus t make very careful in dividual drawings that are more carefully
drawn th an thos e on the shorts,”  Luske advised. “W e want goo d work, but
not hair line stuf f that will tighten animation up.”
As the animatio n began in thi s state of tension and anxiety , rivalries
gradually surfaced in a studio that only a few months before had prided