# Página 90  
ideal companion, and their romance survived Roy’ s years in military service
and then  in the tuberculosis san atoriums. Before he left for New Mexico,
they had  decided  to marry should he survive. “It was a matter of my getting
well and having enough money ,” Roy said.
While he was gone, the Francises would invite W alt to dinner . Sometimes
he would accept, then get so involved in his work that he  would not
remember until ten or eleven o’clock that night. Other time s he would
arrive and, according to Edna, “ talk  and talk  till almost midnight. He was
having a  kind of struggle and w hen he’d get hungry , he’d come over and
we’d feed him a good meal and he’d just talk. I was always a good listener .”
But the real cur e for his loneliness, his real community , was n ot in the
Francis family or in DeMolay . It was in work, and if W alt had formed his
studio to pursue his passion for animation and make his name, he also
formed it when he did to allay h ow bereft he felt with his family gone. Like
DeMolay , Laugh -O-Gram woul d become a kind of fraternity— in this case
one whe re footloose young men eager to learn animation could collaborate.
It would be a place for work bu t also for fun, a place in which the sense of
community wou ld be almost as important as the animations, an d a place in
which th e dema nds of adulthood could be kept at bay . And W alt Disney ,
who sin ce his youth in Marceline had exulted in the bonds of community ,
would be the creator and the proprietor of this small, exube rant utopia
where one need never grow up. Laugh-O-Gram would be his first
Neverland. It would not be his last.
III
It w as not much of a studio. It s primary assets were the Laf fl ets reel and
The Four Musicians,  a fairy-tale anim ation that W alt valued at $3,000, and
equipment that he valued at less than $1,500. He had intended to finance the
operation with his own money and whatever loans he could cadge from his
trainees—Ising pitched in $1,000—but he realized that he could raise more
funds by incorporating, and he wound up giving Ising shares of the
company rather than repaying him. Laugh-O-Gram was capitalized at