# Página 819  
him that  he was in danger of bec oming a “lush” and asked him what Lillian
thought of his co ming home with liquor on his breath. W alt told her that he
kept out  of Lillian’ s breathing space, but he defended himself. “My nerves
are all shot to hell,” he told Geor ge, “and nowadays the fuckin’ pain here is
driving me nuts!” When Geor ge asked him if the treatments were not
working, W alt confessed that he came for the liquor .
W ard K imball thought that after all the years of constant pressure and
constant activity , W alt had finall y broken down. “Here is the same man who
had just  built the park, then been in on every phase, who was sitting in his
of fice okaying and reading scripts far into the night, going to people’ s
rooms and looking over their  story work, making decisions on films,
making decisions on [the] corporate level, laying out the new Florida
complex, plus the decisions on the Lake Buena V ista EPCOT city of
tomorrow , making personal appearances, greeting visitors, going down on
sets, choosing,” Kimball told an interviewer . “[H]e wouldn’ t admit that,
physically and mentally , he cou ldn’ t handle this…his body just gave up.”
Another cowork er , watching him late one night at the studio, ob served how
much W alt had been forced to surrender to age and infirmity , even as he
fought t hem. “His proud head dropped forward on his chest,” the man
wrote. “ His usu ally squared shoulders lowered until they became round.
Thinking no one else was around, he dropped all pretense of youth. He
seemed to age 20 years right before my eyes.” Cameramen on  W onderful
W orld of Color  beg an using dif fusion filters to hide W alt’ s wrinkles, though
W alt objected that the filters made him look out of focus.
He had always been terrified of death, terrified of the very idea of
mortality . “Whenever Father gets depressed, he discusses his impending
demise,” Diane wrote in her biography of him, asserting that “he never goes
to a funeral if he can help it”—he didn’ t even attend his brother Herbert’ s—
and that if he does go to one, “he plunges into a reverie whi ch lasts for
hours after he’ s home.” When he attended the funeral of onetime studio
artist Charlie Philipi, Herb R ym an recalled that W alt kept dru mming his
fingers and rubbing his hands nervously during the service and that when he
got back to the studio, he was ir ritable, yelling at Marc Davis and Milt Kahl
to “g et the hell back to work.” He hated even the mention of death. When