# Página 488  
union’ s business manager , “one  of the leading Communists in the movie
industry” and claimed that at least since July 1941, a month after the strike
began, the union had followed the Communist Party line. Citing  an internal
source close to the labor situation, the report concluded that the Disney
strike proved “conclusively” that the SCG was Communist-dominated and
said that the C ommunists “threw the entire strength of the Communist
machine in Hollywood” into th e dispute. T rue or not, all of th is provided
W alt with a convenient excuse for holding the line against the SCG. It also
excused him from having to deal with the very real dissatisfactions that had
been building at the studio.  
Now , de spite Le ssing and W alt’ s optimism, both sides hunkered down for a
long siege. Sorrell had set up strike headquarters across the street from the
studio o n a little swell in a grov e of eucalyptus trees, where a kitchen with
camp st oves was erected by W arner Bros. carpenters and manned by
striking Disney cafeteria worke rs. One striker compared the line of cars
crawling up the hill to “something out of The Grapes of W rath. ” It mad e for
a pic turesque scene, but then this seemed to be a picturesque str ike. Pickets
held signs reading “Michelange lo, Raphael, T itian, Rubens, Da V inci and
Rembrandt all belonged to guil ds!” or “No wise quacks [with a picture of
Donald Duck] W e want our guilds!” or “Snow White and the 7 00 Dwarfs”
or “1 Genius Against 1,200  Guinea Pigs.” Another sign, featuring
Pinocchio, said, “No strings on me.” And one with Mickey Mouse declared:
“Are we men or mice?” The left-wing newspaper PM  called it the “most
unique p icket li ne in labor ’ s hi story .” Film stars walked the l ine to show
support. Leon Schlesinger let h is animators out early to picket  and harass
Disney , and one day Schlesinge r himself drove up to the line, p rompting a
union sp okesman at the loudspeaker to announce, “Herb Sorrell is now
speaking to Leon Schlesinger , w ho has signed a very nice agreement with
the Cartoonists Guild.”
Driving through  the crowd each morning, W alt seemed, in Babbitt’ s
words, “ very jau nty .” One day , according to Ollie Johnston, he even stood