# Página 181  
profits—an of fer that Giegerich ultimately rejected. In this W alt was almost
certainly thinking of the tie-in b etween Pat Sullivan and Geor ge Bor gfeldt
& Co., which manufactured Fe lix toys, including a popular Felix the Cat
doll that  reporte dly earned Sullivan substantial royalties; but he was also no
doubt co nsidering that there was already bootleg Mickey merchandise on
the m arket from which he was n ot profiting—yet another sign of Mickey’ s
popularity . As W alt later told it, he was in New Y ork with Lillian early in
1930 when a m an approached him at his hotel and waved $300 at him,
which the man was of fering for the right to put Mickey Mouse on cheap
paper ta blets for  schoolchildren.  W alt said he needed the money , so he took
it, making this his first license for a Mickey Mouse product.
But this was more an accident t han a premeditated ef fort. W alt had been
ur ging Giegeric h to contact Bor gfeldt for months, and when Giegerich
failed to  act, W alt apparently co ntacted Bor gfeldt himself during the same
New Y ork trip and made his own deal on January 29 for toys and novelties.
By e arly April, the studio mach ine shop was making Mickey Mouse doll
models to send to Bor gfeldt, though W alt, as particular with his
merchandise as with his animat ions, was displeased with them and asked
that they be held of f the market. At the same time Roy was soliciting
publishers for a book of animal  stories featuring Mickey , was d iscussing a
Mickey comic book with one firm, and was attempting to interest various
confectioneries, including the lar ge Curtiss and Mars companies, in a
Mickey Mouse candy bar .
“Things are happening fast for us now ,” Roy wrote his parents that
January , with the clubs, the co mic strip, and the merchandise all rapidly
coming to fruition, “so much so they have our heads swimming.” He added
that, am id the success of W alt’ s Mickey campaign, they were looking for a
new dis tributor as well—“tryin g to decide which is the best p lace, as we
have had overtures from ever y outlet in the business, incl uding Fox,
Paramount and W arner Bros. How does that sound?” Of course , they were
still obli gated to Pat Powers for the Mickeys for some time to  come, but
that hadn’ t prevented them from  quietly approaching other distributors and
fielding of fers without Powers’ s knowledge; nor had it prevented Charles
Giegerich, Powe rs’ s right-hand man, from approaching them  with an of fer