# Página 814  
written. I don’ t want to be judg ed on just what I have accomplished up to
now for  I have many plans for tomorrow and I’m too involved  with those
future pr ojects t o take time to rehash the past.” (Instead of the h agiography
Schickel had promised, he wound up writing The Disney V ersion,  a scathing
attack on Disney .) T o his niece’ s husband he said that he couldn’ t even
leave the  studio to accept an aw ard out east, admitting, “I don’ t know how
much time I have,” and saying, “I need to stay here to do as m uch as I can
to keep this enterprise twenty-five years ahead of the competition.”
He w as in a hurry , and he had so much to do. The studio prod uced five
films a year—all of which W alt at least casually supervised and a few more
than casually . He had actually outlined one, Lt. Robi n Cruso e, U.S.N.,  a
comic u pdating of Daniel Defoe’ s novel about a man stranded on an island,
on the back of a n envelope or an air -sickness bag, then gave it to  Bill W alsh
and Don DaGradi to convert into a screenplay . When W alsh asked W alt if
he w anted credit, W alt insisted he did. The original story was a ttributed to
“Retlaw Y ensid”—“W alter Disney” backward. He continued to host the
television progr am, for which he would occasionally take trips to gather
material, as he did on a visit to the U.S. Space and Rocke t Center at
Huntsville, Alabama, for another show on space travel. He wo rked on the
Marceline Project, though Roy  believed that not enough of the original
Disney house remained there and that the town should set up a nonprofit
corporation to which WDP w ould consider licensing W alt’ s  name and
providing the company’ s expertise. And he had the Mineral Kin g ski resort
project. W alt visited the site with Buzz Price, Card W alker , and Donn T atum
in August 1965, and that November he and a delegation flew to W ashington
and spo ke to of ficials of the A griculture Department for two  and a half
hours to try to convince them to issue a permit for a $35 million
development in the Sequoia National Park. In December the U.S. Forest
Service awarded him the permit, which granted the company th ree years to
submit its plans to a review board for approval.
Though he had long since given up any supervisory control of
Disneyland, W a lt continued to v isit the park once a month, usually when it
was closed or when it was very crowded and he could race through the
hordes t o avoid autograph seeke rs. He still signed of f on a new  Monsanto-