# Página 207  
January 10, 1930, just before the confrontation with Powers and the
departures of Iwerks and Stalling, Edna gave birth to Roy Edward Disney .
“W alt an d Lilly are both crazy about him,” Roy wrote his mother later that
summer . “He seems somewhat afraid of W alt, but goes crazy over Lilly .
W alt just doesn’ t know how to play with him yet.”
Lillian’ s time with Roy Edward may have defused her reluctance to have
a child of her own, while W alt got further encouragement that same year
when Li llian’ s s ister Hazel filed for divorce and she and her thirteen-year -
old daughter Marjorie moved in to the Disneys’ L yric A venue home. W alt
embraced the role of surrogate father and doted on Marjorie. “He used to
wait up for me to come home,” she recalled. “He’d be at the top of the stairs
when I came in at night, especially if I was very late.” When she went of f to
boarding school and came home only on weekends, W alt would get
annoyed if she m ade plans, asking her , “Why’d you bother to c ome home?
Why’d you bother if you’re not going to be here?”
In the spring of  1931, a little over a year after Roy Edward’ s birth and
after a year of W alt’ s oversight of Marjorie, Lillian was pregnant. W alt was
overjoyed. He immediately began searching for a new homes ite—one to
three acres, he told realtors grandly . But on June 10 Lillian suf fered a
miscarriage. Th e couple were devastated. “It was very sad,” Marjorie
remembered. W alt wrote his cousin Lena mordantly , “I am ma rried and so
far all I can boast of is a cute little wife and a dandy Chow dog.” Though
studio business was obviously pressing and the financial situation
desperate, Roy suggested W alt and Lillian take a trip for a few weeks,
possibly to Honolulu.
If the birth of R oy Edward had lightened the burden during the battle
with Powers in 1930, Lillian’ s m iscarriage cast a pall during th eir struggle
to surviv e that summer . W alt did not leave immediately on a vacation as
Roy advised. He stayed, immersing himself—if possible, even more single-
mindedly—in his work and becoming increasingly tense and irritable.
Never content with the quality of what the studio produced—“No matter
how good a picture we turn out, I can always see ways to improve it when I
see the finished product,” he would later say—he was now even less