# Página 410  
didn’ t h ave to sit through stu f f like that—like the opera. They want
excitement.” At another meeti ng, discussing his reasons for doing The
Concert Featur e,  he cited  Bach’ s “T occata and Fugue in D Minor ,” one of
the pieces he was considering. “There are things in that music that the
general public will not understa nd until they see the things on the screen
representing tha t music,” he sa id, taking the view that the music had a
visual analogue.  “Then they wil l feel the depth in the music. Our object is
to reach the very  people who have walked out on this ‘T occata and Fugue’
because they didn’ t understand  it. I am one of those people; but when I
understand it, I like it.”
For W al t it was, once again, a  mission much more than a commercial
venture, and he would not allow it to be compromised by commercial
considerations. When Roy asked  during a discussion of possible scores why
they couldn’ t select some music that “just the ordinary guy like me can
like,” W alt flashed him an icy st are and ordered him out of the room, telling
him, “G o back down and keep the books.” The importance of th e piece was
educating the audience and exp anding the medium. “Even if t he thing’ s a
flop,” he  told his staf f, “we’ll h ave gained a thorough appreciation of what
can be done with music.”
But as enthused as he was over The Concert Featur e —and it  seemed  to
reener gize him after the enervat ing dif ficulties on Bambi  and Pinocchio —
he was proceed ing cautiously again once The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  was
recorded and Stokowski had le ft the studio to resume his duties with the
orchestra. “I am up to my neck in PINOCCHIO, ” W alt wrote the music
critic Deems T aylor , whom he was consulting on the new project, “and with
BAMBI  j ust getting started and the new studio under way , I do not believe I
am goin g to have much time  to devote to the musical feature that I
discussed with you while in New Y ork.”
Indeed, no sooner had W alt returned from his trip east to re ceive his
honorary degrees than he plunged back into the stalled feature s, though if
he r emained the governing spir it, reviewing the scripts and ap proving the
roughs, he was n o longer the presiding spirit. That October , wi th Hyperion
unable to accommodate physically all the production staf fs working