# Página 684  
feared S tein, see ms to have war med to the idea, elaborating tha t they could
put the studio land and build ings into a separate corporation, sell the
corporation to their new distributor to raise money , and then  lease them
back.
That pla n never reached fruition, and Roy chose to ride it out with RKO
for the time being, telling W alt that, despite RKO’ s problems, the Disney
studio w as “so important to them that you might say we are getting added
emphasis in the selling of our product.” (Roy may also have had second
thoughts about putting himself at the mercy of either Stein  or another
studio.) But with the studio’ s first American live-action feature, the big-
budget 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,  scheduled for release in December
1954, an d with another feature animation, Lady an d the T ramp,  due out the
following June,  neither W alt nor Roy wanted to leave the  company’ s
fortunes in RKO’ s increasingly unsteady hands. In September  1954, Roy
announced that the studio woul d end its eighteen-year alliance with RKO
and dist ribute fi lms itself through the Buena V ista arm it had created for
The Living Desert,  another T rue-Life Adventure, when RKO expressed
reluctance to release it. (The company was named for the street on which
the studio fronted.) T urning th e tables on Roy , W alt called it “my big
brother Roy’ s project, which I h ope works out as he has planned it.” Now
for t he first time  in its history the studio would control the pro duction, the
publicity , and the distribution of every one of its films.
Occasionally , however , such syner gies went awry . In December , the week
before th e first airing of Davy Cr ockett, Disneyland  had featured a one-hour
documentary , Operation Undersea,  on the making of 20,000 Leagues  in
conjunction with  the film’ s release that month. (After the show  remarkably
won the Emmy for Best Individual Program, W alt admitted to its editor , “It
was shot for TV , but did a swell  job as a trailer on 20,000 LEAGUES. ”) A
subsequent program, also promoting Disney films, contained a clip showing
the film’ s star , Kirk Douglas, an d his family riding W alt’ s train on a visit to
W alt’ s home. Douglas objected that he hadn’ t agreed to have the footage
made pu blic. Fu rious after it was shown again on a repeat, he sued the
studio f or $415,000 for invasion of privacy . W alt parried, claiming that
Douglas had come to the house voluntarily and given his permission orally .