# Página 668  
weekly half-hour T rue-Life prog ram taken from the studio’ s nature footage,
and a thirty-minute W orld of T omorr ow  s eries that wo uld combine live
action with animation to depict man’ s past and future.
Astonishingly , for all the time he had spent on the park and for all his
emotional investment in it, W alt hadn’ t given much more thought to the
presentation of Disneyland to A BC than he had to the programs, which
testified to just how loosely and spontaneously he had been working on the
park. Th e problem was that R oy needed something to show the ABC
executives, som ething more up to date than Harper Gof f ’ s old sketches and
more visually suggestive than M arvin Davis’ s elevations. After the months
and mon ths of brainstorming, it wasn’ t until September that W alt convened
a me eting in his of fice with the W alt Disney Productions manag ement team
to describe the park finally and to discuss producing a b rochure for
prospective investors. “W alt wa s very ‘hot’ with his suggestions,” Harry
T ytle re membered, “and gave us all an insight into the terrific scope of
Disneyland”—a scope that had previously been known only to the WED
staf f in the bungalow .
W ith Roy heading to New Y ork, there was no time to lose, not even a
day . Her b R yma n, an art director who had worked at the studio  in the story
department in the 1940s before  leaving for T wentieth Century–Fox, was
painting at his h ome on the mo rning of Saturday , September 23, when he
received a call f rom an old colleague, Dick Irvine. Irvine told him that he
was at the studio with W alt and that W alt wanted to have a word with him.
As R yman later related it, W alt g ot on the phone and asked him how long it
would ta ke for him to get to th e studio. R yman said fifteen m inutes if he
came as he was, a half-hour if he dressed. W alt told him to come as he was
and that W alt would meet him at the studio gate.
After R y man arrived and W alt e scorted him to the WED bungalow—the
Zorro B uilding, as it was now called—the artist wanted to kno w what the
hurry wa s. “W el l, I’m going to do an amusement park,” W alt explained, and
said that Roy was going to make a presentation on Monday to show the
investors what the park would look like. R yman said that he was curious
himself and asked to see the drawing. “ Y ou’r e  going to do it,” W alt said.