# Página 442  
first to relocate a t Burbank, in wing 3B of the Animation Building. W ith the
move a nd with the completion of Pinocchio,  W alt’ s involvement
intensified. By one account, w henever W alt approached the room, Perce
Pearce would shout, “Man is in the forest!”—the line from Bambi  that
announces the threat of hunters.  After all the fits and starts, and after W alt’ s
long abs ences fr om Seward Street, he was now promoting the idea that the
staf f wa s to work closely with  him and, apparently realizing they might
have bee n intim idated by him, that they were not to be afraid to speak up
during meetings, at which point Pearce made a remarkable admission given
the y ears they had been workin g on the script: “W e would like to pull you
in to  the  extent that we don’ t fee l we have to have the thing enti rely making
sense.”
Obviously W alt understood that Bambi  w as dif ficult. H e knew it had less
a rivetin g story than a cycle an d that it required subtlety . Th e characters
couldn’ t be too broadly drawn or the film would miss the poetic tone it
needed to be great, and greatness was the goal, especially now that
Pinocchio  seemed  to have fallen short of expectations. Though W a lt
vacillated betwe en letting the s tory crew take even more time to shore up
the cont inuity an d ur ging them to pick up their pace, he always came down
on the side of allotting more time, even suggesting that they think of
making the film longer and pr esenting it as a “roadshow” picture with
limited performances and reserved seating at theaters specially outfitted
with his  Fantaso und multispeake r system and perhaps a special wide-screen
projection. “These pictures repre sent a lot of work and a lot of thought,” he
told the Bambi  s taf f. “They’re not just an ordi nary run-of-the-mill type of
production that’ s been coming from Hollywood…they stand out.” Striving
to get it right, needing to get it right, he spent most of February in meetings
analyzing and reanalyzing scene after scene, just as he had done on Snow
White,  and by the end of the month had concluded that the film would take
at least another fifteen months—two and a half months for the special
ef fects alone.
He felt it had to  be big. From working on Fantasia,  W alt had become
fascinated with the idea of pres entation. It wasn’ t enough for a  film to be
great. It had to be mounted in such a way that the exhibition of the movie