# Página 246  
W alt agreed to make thirteen Sil ly Symphony cartoons in color in exchange
for t he exclusive use of the three -color T echnicolor process in animation for
two years, enough to give him a significant head start over rivals, but he
rejected any financial assistance from the company .
Roy was already edgy at the prospect of the new expenses and even
convened a meeting of the staf f on the soundstage, admonishing, “W e’ve
got to quit spending money on  these films or we are going to  go broke.”
W riting at the same time to  his parents, he complained that W alt
“continually (wi thout letup in the least) always strives for som ething that
has not been do ne before. That sort of policy , of course, is always costly .”
As always, Roy was char ged with coming up with the money to finance
W alt’ s a mbitions. W ith UA reluctant to pay more for color , Roy , clearly
scrambling to appease W alt, approached a New Y ork investment banker
named Rosenbaum to whom he had been introduced by a mutual friend, but
the terms for the loan were usurious and the bank was said to be
unscrupulous, and Roy broke of f negotiations. There was even a press
report, which the Disneys vehem ently denied, that Roy would b e forced to
take the company public.
What co mplicated Roy’ s task was that at the very moment he w as trying
to secur e financ ing for color , th e remainder of the $195,000 lo an that UA
had advanced the studio under its revised contract was, according to a
provision of that contract, comi ng due if UA decided to call it in. Roy and
W alt both wanted to renegotiate with UA, hoping that they might be granted
a two-year extension that would give them the resources to convert to color ,
and Ro y went  to New Y ork  that May to discuss terms . But UA
—“depression-minded,” Roy said—was not inclined to grant an extension,
in part because it doubted that W alt could continue to deliver cartoons of
such high quality . “They seem to think there must be a slipping point,” Roy
wrote W alt, “or that you will go  stale, or go Hollywood, or some place else,
but [ not] to cont inue making good pictures.” Since Roy , having taken up his
brother ’ s cause, believed that th ey had never “missed in the past by taking
our gam ble on ourselves and our product,” he suggested that they for get an
extension with UA and look elsewhere for funds. He left New Y ork with
another small loan from UA—$12,000 per film on those delivered between