# Página 45  
thinking of the harm. He would always go ahead with any of his ideas
whether he had the means or no t.” Most people found him cha rming. W alt
realized his ef fect—he was extr overted and attractive—but he also worked
at it. Roy said th at he always focused on whomever he was spe aking with,
that he “gave the impression he  took a deep personal interest,” and that in
the family he wa s the one who remembered everyone’ s birthday and always
got a present. He  knew too that the ef fect could be disarming. A t least when
W alt wa s younger and Herbert a nd Ray were still living at home, it was, in
Roy’ s re collection, the older boys who really took the brunt of t heir father ’ s
anger . W alt, on the other hand, w ould position a chair between himself and
Elias and “just ar gue the dicke ns out of Dad. Dad couldn’ t get ahold of
him.” Finally Elias would capitulate.
By the time they were living in K ansas City , though, the charm no longer
worked on Elias. “It reached the point,” W alt said, “that to tell the truth with
my father got me a licking.” Elias was impatient with W alt too. When they
were building the Bellefontaine  addition and W alt would make  a mistake,
Elias would try to hit him with the broad side of the saw or club him with
the handle of the hammer . Usua lly W alt would run to his mother until Elias
cooled d own. But a reckoning, a big reckoning, came when  W alt was
fourteen and Elias upbraided him for being too insolent, then ordered him to
the base ment for a beating. Roy pulled W alt aside and told hi m to resist.
Obedient to his father , W alt h eaded downstairs anyway . Elias followed,
yelling and grabbing a hamme r to strike him. But this time, impulsively
rising to his brot her ’ s injunction , W alt stayed his father ’ s hand and removed
the hammer . “He raised his other arm and I held both of his hands,” W alt
later rec alled. “A nd I just held them there. I was stronger than h e was. I just
held the m. And he cried.” He s aid his father never touched him after that.
Broken by work, Elias was now defeated in the family too.
It w as Flora w ho provided the ballast for the Disneys—Flora who
managed the money for Elias, made most of the children’ s clothes and
sewed their quilts, cooked th eir meals and encouraged their reading,
connived with the children, and always exercised restraint and an even
temper , and for all these things she would be beloved in their memories.
And it was Flora alone who could tease her husband out o f what his