# Página 183  
but n ot e ntirely convinced (“Y o u know , my greatest weakness i s that I’m a
lousy judge of people,” he once said) and called Roy a “tro ublemaker .”
Meanwhile Pow ers, sensing that the Disneys might be att empting to
circumvent him with a new distributor , wired W alt testily that they had
obviously decided to terminate the agreement, and he wanted the courtesy
of a noti fication so that he could make arrangements with anoth er animator .
W ary of  making  any move until  he received his money , Roy suggested that
W alt go to New Y ork himself and confront Powers. W alt left with Lillian on
January 17, 1930.
By the time W alt arrived in Ne w Y ork, the skirmish had esca lated into
all-out war , eerily reminiscent of the showdown with Charles  Mintz just
two years earlier , right down to the betrayal by one of W alt’ s closest
associates. The morning of Janu ary 21 Ub Iwerks had gone to R oy’ s of fice,
abruptly announced that he wanted to leave the studio as soon as possible,
and aske d to be released from his contract and from the partnership he had
formed with the Disneys. Roy was stunned and hurt, though  he of fered
Iwerks $5,000 for his 20 percen t share of the company . What Roy did not
know at the time and only heard later that day in a wire from W alt—who
had lear ned it when Powers gle efully sprang it on him during a meeting in
Powers’ s of fice—was that Iwerk s had been lured away by Powers himself.
Though Iwerks had initially denied having a contract with Powers, he
sheepishly admitted in a long tal k with Roy as he was preparing to leave the
studio th at Giegerich had contacted him as early as September—the same
time tha t Gieger ich had contacted the Disneys with the plan to double-cross
Powers—about forming a studio of his own.
Iwerks w asn’ t terribly ambitious  and he had never shown any inclination
or talent to run a studio, but he entertained the of fer , he confessed, because
he h ad long seet hed silently under W alt’ s command. He bristled  when W alt
would visit his animation table at night and rearrange the drawings on the
exposure sheets, even though Iwerks had already timed them. And he
bristled when, after he had rou ghed out a scene for The Skeleton Dance,
W alt insisted that he give it to an “in-betweener ,” or novice animator , to
complete, believing that Iwerks’ s time was too valuable to hav e him fully
animate everyth ing. Indeed, animating to “extremes,” as it was called, was