# Página 70  
pressure as the words “IWW ,” “Mob L ynching,” “Peace T reaty ,” “Strikes,”
“T urmoil,” “Sug ar Shortage,” and “Reds” squeezed out through the jambs.)
He drew several installments of a strip he titled “Mr . Geor ge’ s W ife,” about
a h usband browbeaten by his shrewish mate, and worked on several others
he c alled “As Luck W ould Have It” and “It’ s a Question for the Senate.”
When th e federal census-taker came to the house that month , W alt first
declared himself a “commercial artist,” then, in an apparent change of
mind, had the taker reclassify him as a “cartoonist,” which fit his ambition.
For someone virtually without training or experience, for someone who
had just  lost his job, he was cocky—“I felt well-qualified,” he  would say
after just six weeks at Pesmen-Rubin—already thinking of opening his own
art shop while he awaited a strip or newspaper position. It seemed
ridiculous, but the plan got an u nexpected nudge early in January when he
received a visit from one of h is former coworkers at Pesmen-Rubin, a
“hillbilly” W alt called him, with the improbable name of Ubbe Iwwerks.
Usually taciturn  and unemotional, Iwwerks was visibly distraught. He too
had bee n laid of f. He complained that he had no money or prospects and
that he had to su pport his mother , which made him especially d esperate. As
Iwwerks sat moping and ago nizing in W alt’ s room, W alt suddenly ,
impulsively , spr ang the idea that they go into business togethe r . Iwwerks,
who was more o f a plodder than a go-getter , was baf fled and un certain, but
W alt told him to collect samples of his work so that W alt could begin
soliciting clients for their shop.
Other th an the fact that they w ere both high school dropouts and both
putative artists without jobs, the two prospective partners could not have
been more dissimilar . W alt, wit h Disney grandiosity , had big dreams and
outsize aspirations. Iwwerks thought only of the immediate future. W alt was
gregarious and outgoing, his m anner dramatic, his hair carelessly swept
back on  his head but always wi th long strands falling incorrigibly over his
forehead. Iwwer ks was painfully shy , even withdrawn, doleful and forlorn;
he seldom spoke, and his hair was carefully molded high on his head in
almost c omic ef fect. They dif fered in their approach to art too. For W alt,
drawing was both an escape f rom his father ’ s hard pragmatism and an
appeal f or attention. For Iwwerks, who specialized in lettering rather than