# Página 804  
Robert Moses, another monume ntalist who appreciated the scale of W alt’ s
ambition, called EPCOT “overw helming” and predicted that it would be the
“first accident free, noise free, pollution free city center in America.”
Of c ourse WED was not equip ped to provide the technology by itself.
W alt nee ded par tners, just as he  had needed them at Disneyland , but rather
than loo k for corporate lessees who would help provide financin g, as he had
at D isneyland, for EPCOT he wanted intellectual capital. (T his was no
doubt one reason he had been so  keen on for ging corporate alliances for the
world’ s fair .) W ithin months of the announcement he and his staf f were
visiting various  companies again—GE, W estinghouse, RCA—to inquire
about w hat they  were working on and whether they might be i nterested in
using E PCOT as their own lab oratory to test new technologies, so that
EPCOT would be a showcase for American knowhow as  well as a
showcase for W alt Disney’ s imagination.
Now with EPCOT he was back at WED, as he had been in the planning
stages o f Disney land and before the world’ s fair . He asked his friend and
neighbor , the distinguished arch itect W elton Becket, who was designing the
Century City complex in Los A ngeles at the time, to draw up a plan for
EPCOT , but according to Marvin Davis, W alt was disappointed by Becket’ s
presentation; Da vis suspected W alt felt the buildings looked inhospitable to
W alt, an d so that was why , as he had done on Disneyland, W alt gave the
assignment to his Imagineers. D avis said that W alt’ s original plans had been
scribbled on the back of a pape r breakfast napkin and that wh enever W alt
had a new idea , he would giv e Davis another napkin with a drawing.
Sometimes the Imagineers, tryin g to divine W alt’ s intentions, would pluck
the napkins from the garbage where W alt had tossed them.
As the plans took shape, W alt would visit the of fices three or f our times
each we ek, usually rearranging the models on the layout, an d when the
EPCOT operatio n moved from its tiny warren at WED to a lar ger , high-
ceilinged room that was dubbe d the Florida Room, W alt wou ld sit at the
worktable, as one Imagineer remembered it, “sketching away with a big
pencil w hile the rest of us were sitting around, ideas going bac k and forth,
right and  left.” When they finis hed, they had devised a five-thousand-acre