# Página 391  
especially since Disney’ s rivals,  the Fleischers and W alter Lant z, were also
preparing features now . After the flush of Snow White,  W alt was beginning
to worry . “W e have to prove to the public that SNOW WHITE  and feature
cartoons are not just a passing novelty ,” he wrote that May to one of his
chief supporters , Gus V an Schmus, the general manager of Radio City
Music Hall, “but that they have a very definite place in the entertainment
world an d are here to stay .” He admitted to one reporter that after Snow
White  “he  was  afraid he could not equ al it in other endeavors”—an at titude,
the reporter observed, “quite in  reverse of the Hollywood ph ilosophy of
coasting as long as possible on one successful film.” And at a sweatbox
session that July he was already lamenting that his directors were not
thinking creative ly but rather we re “taking literally everything that is put in
there…and just carrying it out mechanically—just by formula, instead of
inventing all the time and impr oving.” He exhorted them to s tart “raising
their values.”
Given the sudden emphasis on feature animations, it was natura l to think
of Snow White  as the b eginning of a new era i n the studio, a golden age of
cartoons in which the values were raised and the studio really was
transformed into  the communal guild of which W alt had dreamed. The truth
as it turned out was something  else. Snow White  may have been less a
beginning than an end—of old ways of crafting cartoons and running the
studio. F or one thing, with the f eature’ s success had come a vas t expansion
in the workforce, as W alt brace d for the new films to come. Nearly eight
hundred employ ees were added to the payroll in the two years following
Snow White,  but bec ause W a lt had been slow to advance feature production
as he awaited the results of that picture, he wound up creating a  glut. Many
of th e new employees simply sat doing nothing through mo st of 1938.
Sharpsteen did n’ t want to work with them because they weren’ t
experienced enough. Ham Luske tried to find them assignments, but he
remembered it as a “horrible deal.”
Because there were so many new employees and because the studio was
being converted virtually ove rnight from one that was dedicated to
producing six- and seven-minu te cartoons to one that was dedicated to
producing seventy- and eighty-minute features, chaos began to descend.