# Página 644  
nervously on cigarettes—it was also a way to keep moving for ward rather
than wa it. “I’m going to move on to something else because I’m wasting
my time if I mess around with that any longer ,” he would ofte n tell nurse
Hazel G eor ge about various stalemated projects. “And instead of trying to
solve what momentarily was an insoluble situation,” Geor ge wo uld say , “he
would go on to something else. So he kept constantly in movement.”
The production matters that now  diverted him were the complet ion of So
Dear to  My Heart ; the combination of The W ind in the W illows  and The
Legend of Sleepy Hollow , which were be ing packaged as a single film, The
Adventur es of Ichabod and Mr . T oad ; and Cinder ella —all of which were
released in a per iod of just over a year between January 1949 a nd February
1950. While none of these films  alone might have commanded h is attention
now tha t he was playing with  his trains and contemplating his village,
together they made incursions . He was also contending with Alice in
W onderland,  Lewis Carroll’ s story of a girl who follows a rabbit down his
hole and into a series of surrealistic adventures. No project had  been at the
studio longer—W alt had first discussed it with Mary Pickford in 1933 and
bought t he right s to the Lewis Carroll books with the T enniel illustrations in
1938 shortly after Snow White —and none had proved more intractable.
Over the years W alt had assigned various writers to the film, among them
novelist Aldous Huxley , who, a ccording to Dick Huemer , couldn’ t get in a
word at story m eetings without being outtalked by W alt. “Five meetings or
so a nd we neve r saw him aga in,” Huemer said of Huxley’ s brief 1945
tenure. H uxley w asn’ t the only one who had dif ficulties. “There  is no story
in the book,” said Bob Carr , who had been the head of the story department
during one early go at Alice.  Moreover , he observed, “Alice has no
character . She merely plays strai ght man to a cast of screw-ball comics. It is
too bad for any leading character to be placed in this untenable position.”
W alt didn’ t disagree. “Y ou could hear him with the animator s at work,”
Diane recalled, “saying Alice was cold, you couldn’ t get any warmth into
her .” Ben Sharpsteen said that  the animators were none too enthusiastic
about the film e ither but that so  many people over the years— “especially
sophisticated people,” in Sharpsteen’ s words—had ur ged W alt to make
Alice  that he had felt compelled to produce it whether he liked it or not.