# Página 712  
persistent ones. Though Lillian  loved being Mrs. W alt Disne y and was
willing to subordinate hersel f to her husband—when asked for an
autograph, she would sign on th e flourish of the y  i n W alt ’ s “Disn ey”—and
though she knew she had to share him with his public, she was not
particularly happ y about having to do either . Once, at the Calgary Stampede
in Canada, where W alt was invited as a special guest, Lillian had to wait,
sitting o n a barrel, for two hour s. “[S]he used to be provoked at being left
alone like that,” Roy said, and quoted her as remarking that W alt “thought
more of the public and the press than he did of her .” Even Diane admitted
that her mother was “possessive” of W alt and “jealous of other people that
were fond of him,” while Lillian herself was aloof with the public, haughty
to them.
She did n’ t share his enthusiasms or his childlike ef fusions—not his
animations or his miniatures or his trains or even Disneyland. W ard Kimball
claimed to have seen Lillian at the opening of the park—actually she did
not attend—and  to have asked what she thought of it. “W ell, it keeps W alt
from playing around with other  women,” she told him flatly , though W alt
never played around with other women or even seemed to notice them. (His
midlife crisis was his model trains.) On another occasion, at a July 4
company picnic, the artist T . He e, who raised goats as a hobby , gave W alt
and the girls a kid with a red ribbon and a bell as a pet. W alt packed the kid
in the car to leave, but Lillian insisted that the goat was not going with
them. Ju st as persistent, W alt sa id it was a gift and began driv ing of f, but
Lillian s obbed “ furious tears,” Diane said, so W alt let them out at home,
turned around with the kid still in the car , and spent the night at the studio.
“That situation all but caused a divorce in the Disney house hold,” W alt
wrote Hee.
T o Lillian, W alt was capricious. She told one interviewer that being
married to him w as like being “attached to one of those flying s aucers they
talk abo ut,” and  that she never knew “when W alt’ s imagination is going to
take of f into the wild blue yond er and everything will explode.” That was
exciting, she said, but she focused less on the excitement than on the
uncertainty . “I’v e always been worried. I’ve never felt secure,” she told
another interviewer , “but it got beyond the point where I could do anything