# Página 430  
real them e of the film was pow er— his  power . And he insisted that in any
case the liberties he was taking were slight. Instead of being about the
woods o utside V ienna, as Beethoven had intended, the sequence would be
about the Elysian Fields, and instead of country dancing it would have
Bacchus. “He brings all the centaurs and centaurettes to his gay party , and
they are  having  a gay time.” And he made a pronouncement  that critics
would la ter use  to lacerate him  for his alleged philistinism a nd sense of
cultural imperialism: “I think this thing will make Beethoven.”  
Even as  W alt was finalizing Fantasia,  he still had Bambi  to resolve. That
spring h e had begun pressing the crew to accelerate production. He
expected them to have the death of Bambi’ s mother animated in rough by
May , an d the entire film finished  by August. The problem was that the crew
on Sewa rd Stree t, lar gely left to  their own devices while W alt  worked on
Pinocchio  and Fantasia,  had  yet to determine how they were going to
proceed. After nearly a year and a half of W alt’ s telling them to ruminate on
the char acters b efore animating  them, he was now directing them to begin
animating sectio ns as soon as possible, review them in the Leica reels, and
then rev ise them . Only then w ould they bring on the key animators, the
“best an imal animators we have in the studio,” as Perce Pearce put it, to set
the characters in motion. As Pearce described the process at a story meeting
that April, the Leica reels gave them an opportunity to expe riment and
discard what didn’ t work. “There is no formula for any of i t,” he said,
essentially admi tting that they h adn’ t licked the project. “It’ s on ly trial and
error .”
By late August, W alt, who said he didn’ t want to sit in on long story
meetings, had reviewed the first four Leica reels, and he wasn’ t happy .
Some of  the action was too slow , there was too little tension  in a scene
when Man enters the forest, a nd the voices were inadequate. Still, he
instructed the crew to begin animating in the hope that the chara cters would
thereby be solidified. “[W]e’ve found that out in Pinocchio, ” he told the
staf f, in a reversal of the method on Snow White  and  of what he  had been