# Página 579  
grandmother had  been married. (W alt eagerly snapped photographs, only to
discover later that it was not the actual house; Lillian, who had reluctantly
accompanied him , never let him  for get his mistake.) Then he drove out to
Potter F arm, wh ere the Disneys had once lived. He even visited his father ’ s
old schoolhouse. It was the sort of solemn, nostalgic pilgrimage that W alt
Disney seldom made. But he needed the journey now . He was lost.
W ith the animations no longer holding his attention and the combination
films on ly an expedient, W alt kept searching for something that might pique
his interest and help spark the studio. During the war he had waxed
enthusiastic over the educational potential of films and filmstrips. “It is not
visionary or presumptuous for us to anticipate the use of our own medium
in the curriculum of every schoo lroom in the world,” he had told a national
radio audience in 1943. Indeed,  educators were clamoring for Disney , and
as early as 1944 W illiam Benton of the Encyclopaedia Britannica  had
entered into negotiations with W alt to make a series of educational films—
anywhere from six to twelve ann ually . “Probably the worst student you ever
had has now become connected  with education!” W alt joked i n a letter to
his o ld teacher , Daisy Beck. The  following spring the president of Stanford
University , Don ald B. T residder , invited W alt and Lillian to the  campus in
Palo Al to for a weekend to  discuss educational films and models.
Meanwhile W alt assigned Carl Nater , who had worked on the war films, to
head an educational film division at the studio.
But as with mos t of his contemp lated projects in this period, he was soon
disillusioned when he discovered that the quality of the film s would be
severely compromised by the minimal return he could hope to get, so that
had he made them, he would ha ve been back in the same position as when
the s tudio was producing the tra ining films. His real objection, t hough, may
have bee n psychological rather than financial. In making educational films,
he would have b een conceding that he was edging away from en tertainment
—a concession he was not yet ready to make. “He would make
entertainment,” wrote Jimmy Johnson, who worked at the studio, “and if
the e ducators discovered some e ducational value in his films, then that was
fine with  him.” Ben Sharpsteen  said that W alt was blunter . “W e can’ t bore