# Página 585  
been a ballet dancer with Ann a Pavlova, a star of the Folies Ber gère, a
painter , and an actor . Stowitts w rote W alt that Riefenstahl had slipped into
California quietly and had asked to meet him because she considered him
“the greatest personage in American films.” As Riefenstahl later described
the mee ting, she  spent the entire day with W alt at the studio (W alt’ s desk
diary shows a sweatbox session for the “Claire de Lune” s equence of
Fantasia  at two o’clock) then of fered to  have a print of her film Olympia
messengered over when W alt expressed interest in seeing it. B ut W alt, she
said, sud denly h esitated, saying , “If I see your film then all of Hollywood
will find  out by tomorrow ,” si nce his projectionists were unionized. He
feared that he might be boycotted. Three months later , Riefenstahl wrote,
W alt dis avowed her trip, claiming that he hadn’ t known who she was when
he issued the invitation.
Of cour se W alt had known wh o Riefenstahl was; to Stowitts’ s original
letter , so meone, presumably a studio publicist, had attached an ad from
V ariety  placed by the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League declaring that
Riefenstahl was  in Hollywood a nd calling for the industry to ostracize her .
Still W a lt, who was something  of a political naïf, may not h ave known
exactly w hat she  represented, and he certainly would not have wanted to get
embroiled in any political contro versy at the time. As Europe churned in the
mid -1930 s, W alt had exp ressly told one reporter that America should “ let
’em fight their o wn wars” and th at he had “learned my lesson” from the last
one. Once the war started, eve n after the 1941 strike, left-w ing groups
frequently aske d for his contr ibutions and support, in everything from
helping to underwrite a series of  lectures by Owen Lattimore (a  left-leaning
China expert who would later be condemned by Communist-hunting
Senator Joseph McCarthy) to serving as a patron for the Congress of
American-Soviet Friendship, all of which suggested that W alt was not
perceived as a hopeless reactio nary . W alt sometimes agreed, sending his
“heartfelt greeti ngs to the gallant people of the Soviet Unio n” on that
country’ s twenty -fifth anniversary , appearing as guest of honor  at a “Night
of the Americas ” sponsored by a group designated by the attorney general
as subv ersive, and signing an ad in the Daily W orker  along with Paul
Robeson, Langston Hughes, Communist leader Earl Browder , and others
for “A T ribute to the Memory of Art Y oung,” a left-wing cartoonist.