# Página 435  
him. But Elias was unimpresse d. “What else is it good for?” he asked,
prompting W alt to tell him that the entire facility could be converted into a
hospital if the studio failed.
When it opened in December ,  three months late, it was as much a
fulfillment as Fantasia  pro mised to be . Now W alt had  his physical utopia.
Saying that he e schewed aesthe tic niceties, he claimed he had  designed it
primarily for function. “Give me  the plans, functions, intelligently laid out,”
he h ad o rdered Crowhurst, “then I don’ t care what you do after that so long
as y ou do not  destroy those functions.” But for W alt fu nction was
generously defin ed, which meant that aesthetics were very much taken into
consideration. He wanted there to be a sense of comfort, even e xhilaration,
so th at t he empl oyees would work from joy rather than obligation. T o avoid
monotony and provide a chang e of pace, he directed that the wings and
floors be  painted dif ferent colors, bright bold colors, which was something
that designer Kem W eber had ne ver done previously . T o alleviate any sense
of a somber i ndustrial plant, he approved dif ferent shades of brick,
incorporating a California pale tte with desert beige of fsetting the red.
Hyperion had often been describ ed by reporters as having the ambience of a
college campus ; W alt determined that the new studio should have the
appearance of a campus as well. Nothing soared at the Burbank studio.
Everything was built low and horizontal, embracing rather than imposing.
The path ways w ere broad, the lawns green and planted with oaks, the air
still and quiet and filled with the fragrance of freshly mown grass. There
were even quail, doves, rabbits, and the occasional deer , and one could
often se e W alt underneath one of the trees watching them. It was W alt’ s
very own Marceline.
Y et it was imposing in its own way . “[I]t wasn’ t until you got to  the new
Studio on 50 acres of land that you realized what a big plant i t was,” Bill
Cottrell would say . The estimated cost was just under $2 million, with
nearly half of that slotted for the Animation Building, which was, at
152,000 square feet, over three times as lar ge as the Animation Building at
Hyperion. Ink and Paint was also three times as lar ge as the sheds at
Hyperion, and the soundstage n early five times as lar ge as those at the old
studio. All told, Burbank was four times lar ger than Hyperion.