# Página 417  
them, and pondering possible visualizations: Paganini’ s “Moto Perpetuo” or
Mosolov’ s “Iron Foundry” (“W e could do something good with machinery ,”
W alt said); Stravinsky’ s The Fir ebir d,  “Re nard,” or Petr ouchka;  Prokofiev’ s
Love for Thr ee Oranges ; Go unod’ s “Funeral March o f a Marionette;”
Mussor gsky’ s “ Song of a Fl ea” (with opera star Lawrence T ibbett
scratching himself during the performance); Berlioz’ s Roman Carnival ; a
work of Debussy’ s that W alt called “Fate”; W agner ’ s Ring of the
Nibelungen  (which,  one staf f member suggested, might be used for a new
children’ s story  called The Hobbit  by J. R. R. T olkien); and even a
symphonic rend ering of “Pop Goes the W easel.” They debated whether to
introduce a single pianist for a piece (W alt wanted Rachmaninof f and
thought of having a Russian scene with snow falling, and the sn ow turning
into crystal formations) and w hether to include American pieces. (W alt
decided that “Americans wouldn’ t feel insulted if you left the American
music out,” while Stokowski declared, “Disney is a genius who is going
into new  things.  T o go back to S wanee River and that sentimental stuf f—it
isn’ t for  this picture I don’ t thin k.”) For all the deliberate, inte nse scrutiny
of each score, W alt could barely contain his enthusiasm. After dragging
along on Bambi  and Pinocchio,  hitting roadblock after roadblock, he told
Stokowski that he was going to assign a number of units to The Concert
Featur e  and thought he  could rough out a story in two to three weeks—
once the y settled on the compos itions. That way , when Stokowski returned
to the studio in January , they could actually begin the orchestrations and
record the music by the spring.
They made an odd pair—the epitome of the classical artist  and the
epitome of the commercial a rtist—which may have been part of the
personal attracti on, just as it was part of the artistic partnership. Stokowski
seemed to love the free-spirited ness of the Disney studio. W alt seemed to
love the  highbrow legitimization that Stokowski bestowed. At  times they
could sit  togethe r , usually with D eems T aylor , and listen to mus ic for hours.
At othe r times, as one anim ator described it, Stokowski would be
“swooping throu gh the halls followed by Disney and a retinue of writers
and stor y sketch  men, all strugg ling to keep pace.” At meeting s W alt was
deferential to his partner . As informal as he was, he always called his
associate “Mr . Stokowski,” never “Leopold” or “Stoki,” whi ch was his