# Página 577  
Another reporter called W alt’ s outfits a “pied ensemble” and said he was
wearing moccasins at the time of their encounter . But now , though he still
favored those crushed hats that,  according to Lillian, he thought made him
look das hing, an d though he sti ll often wore sports shirts and sweaters, he
was also going to Bullock’ s Department Store for fittings two or three times
each year , and his suits were more likely to be solid blue o r gray and
conservatively c ut than wildly patterned and loose-fitting. Even his once-
unkempt hair , which had added to the rakish ef fect, was increasingly tamed
with pomade.
One reason for this transform ation from a heedless entertainer to a
cautious corpora te leader who consulted ARI surveys rather than rely on his
own instincts was the need to make films without also making mistakes.
The stu dio couldn’ t af ford the risk. Another reason was a growing
conservatism in W alt that was itself a function of the studio’ s embattled
status; of his government work and his role as American goodwill
ambassador; of his suspicions of Communist intrigue after the strike; and
even possibly of his age, now th at he was in his mid-forties and no longer a
reckless young visionary . W alt, who had never aspired to be a b usinessman
or industrial kingpin, seemed to recognize the change and gamely struggled
against i t with his Dali and Poe  projects and the more modernis t animation
style, but the dull, uninspired animations, the sluggishness in the studio
now , and  the racial obtuseness of Song of the South  wer e un mistakably the
products of an artist who was less dexterous and less contrarian than W alt
Disney had been before he had a lar ge studio apparatus to maintain. It was
the W arners who now played the subversive role that W alt Disney had once
played with the early Mickey Mouse cartoons. W alt’ s animations seemed to
be aime d square ly at the middle so as not to of fend, which made them a
function not only of a dif ferent W alt Disney but of a dif ferent A merica. As
art critic  Robert Hughes would describe the change in Disney ,  “He turned
himself from a c artoonist into the Old Master of masscult.” What this meant
in c ultural terms, according to historian Steven W atts, was that Disney’ s
“critiques of the social orde r gradually gave way to a powerful
preservationist impulse.”