# Página 138  
standard. Dick Huemer , who w orked for the Fleischer brothers at the time
and who  had been a standard hi mself, said that he and his colleagues there
would seek them out since, “bad as they look today” (Huemer was writing
in 1969), “they were tremendously superior to our things.”
Once again W alt seemed to have ridden out a crisis, both aesthetic and
financial, and the studio was suddenly thriving again. In prepara tion for the
Oswalds W alt had added staf f through the previous winter an d spring of
1927, among them a soda jerk named Les Clark from a confectionery
around the corner from the o ld Kingswell studio, who would rapidly
become one of his most trusted  employees, and W alt’ s own sister -in-law ,
Hazel Sewell, who was put in char ge of an expanded ink-and-paint
department. By the end of the year the staf f had grown to twenty-two—a
tribute to Oswald’ s success. W alt had also, no doubt under competitive
pressure now that Iwerks’ s work  was gaining recognition, hiked the laconic
animator ’ s salary from $70 a week, when he first began drawing the
Oswalds, to $120 two months l ater . He was, W alt wrote Mintz , “a man of
experience who m I am willing  to put alongside any man in t he business
today .”
W alt himself was only drawing  $100 a week at the time and Roy only
$65, but they were now clearing roughly $500 on each Oswald and splitting
the year -end profits sixty-forty  between them—$5,361 to W alt in 1927,
$3,574 to Roy . N ever one to hol d on to his money , W alt bought ten acres of
desert la nd in October and Nov ember , possibly at Uncle Robert’ s behest,
since th e Disney brothers were also investing in stock for Uncle Robert’ s
and Joh n Cowles’ s oil drilling venture. More important, in June W alt and
Roy had  each put a $200 depos it on adjacent lots on L yric A venue, in the
Silver L ake district at the foot of the Los Feliz hills, not far from the new
studio, and they began constructing homes that August.
The homes were not lar ge compared to the mansions of the Hollywood
moguls whose ranks they hoped to join; they were only eleven hundred
square f eet each, with two bedrooms, a dining room, a living r oom that, at
thirteen by twenty feet, was the biggest space in the house, and a kitchen—
all in a style that might be described as mock English T udor . They were