# Página 139  
Ready-Cuts, meaning they were prefabricated, and, observed one reporter ,
among the “commonest type of middle-class construction in Hollywood.”
The total cost, according to Roy , was only $16,000 for both, not an
inconsiderable sum at the time but not extravagant either , and even that
estimate may have been high. Still, these were the Disneys’ first homes of
their own. W alt’ s niece, Marjorie, said his was the finest house she had ever
seen.
The problem for Lillian was that W alt, always working and not terribly
domestic to begin with, was seldom home to enjoy it. Possibly to keep
Lillian company , W alt had her mother move in with them shortly after they
took possession  in December . “W alt was so good to my grandmother ,”
Marjorie Sewell recalled. “He treated her like she was a queen.” (W alt
always s aid that  he loved to hear the Bounds’ s tales of pioneer  life on the
Idaho frontier .) W alt was sympathetic to Lillian’ s loneliness. After
becoming so preoccupied with a cartoon one night that he st ayed at the
studio w hile Lill ian waited nervously at home for him, he was so goaded by
guilt tha t he decided to get her another companion that first Christmas on
L yric A v enue. L illian disliked dogs, though W alt pressed her on e day to say
what kind of dog she would want if she absolutely had to mak e a choice.
Lillian said she had read somewhere that chows had little odor , so that
would b e her choice. So W alt went to a kennel, picked out a puppy , fetched
it on Christmas Eve, and kept it next door at Roy’ s house until Christmas
morning, when he put it inside a hatbox with a ribbon on top and then asked
Marjorie to get it—a scene that would be incorporated into Lady and the
T ramp.  Wh en s he recei ved the box, Lill ian was upset that W alt would select
a ha t for her without her approval, but when she opened it a nd saw the
puppy inside, she immediately melted. “I’ve never seen anybody so crazy
over an animal,”  W alt would sa y , though he was every bit as sm itten. They
named h er Sunnee. Lillian would not let the dog out of her sight. It slept in
their ro om. When W alt would take Lillian and her mother and little
Marjorie for Sunday drives, he  always stopped on the way home for ice
cream, and he m ade a point of buying an ice cream for the dog, standing on
the c urb and fee ding it to her . One night when they could not find her , W alt
canvassed the entire neighborho od in a rainstorm without success. It was
two o’clock in t he morning before he could coax Lillian to go to bed. “I’ve