# Página 826  
Marc,” w hich hit Davis like a blow . “He never said goodbye. It was always
‘See ya later .’”
At B urbank, W alt ran into prod ucer W inston Hibler , who, like everyone
else, was struck by how pale and  frail he looked but who also saw him gain
vitality a s he talked of his plans. “I had a scare, Hib,” he said.  “I’m okay ,
but I may be of f my feet for a while. Now , I’m gonna be getting over this
and I want to get into Florida. Y ou guys gotta carry some of this load here.
But if you get a real problem and you get stuck or something, why , I’m
here.” H e spent  most of the rest of the afternoon watching a rough cut of
The Happiest Millionair e  and wept throughout. Then, wi thout returning to
the of fic e, he asked to be driven home. He had tried to reassu re everyone
that he would be coming back, t hat there was still so much more for him to
do. But the sense of gloom wa s inescapable. Bill W alsh, whom W alt had
seen that day o n the set of Blackbear d’ s Ghost,  knew W alt wouldn’ t be
returning. “W e decided he was d oomed,” W alsh said. W alt almost certainly
knew it too. V isi ting Hazel Geor ge, he sputtered, “There’ s some thing I want
to te ll you,” but  he couldn’ t fin d the words, and they wound up collapsing
into each other ’ s arms. W ard Kimball, seeing W alt at a distance that day ,
observed, “He looked defeated for the first time.”
Even so , the pretense of recovery continued. Roy and Edna, who were in
England when W alt was dischar ged, wrote him and Lilly a chipper
postcard: “Just heard that W alt was better and had lunch at the studio.
Congratulations. Happy Day . N ews we like to hear .” T wo days after his
studio visit W alt himself wrote a  former secretary , “As far as my problem is
concerned, it’ s all over with and  taken care of. I’ve been released from the
hospital and am well on the road to recovery ,” adding that “I’ve  been given
a c lean bill of h ealth and have e ven put in a few hours in the of fice just to
be sure my girls here don’ t ge t rusty .” He spent the next three days at
Diane’ s home because his own house was still being renovat ed, and the
family celebrated Thanksgiving there, watching movies Ron h ad taken of
the V ancouver trip. The next day , Friday , November 25, he flew with Lillian
to Palm  Springs aboard the G ulfstream, planning to read scripts and
recuperate at Smoke T ree. On W ednesday he was so wracked with pain that