# Página 641  
He w as considering exhibiting t he show in department stores or in railroad
cars, wh ere schoolchildren coul d bring coins to “play” the scenes, though
W alt hesitated at having childre n come to freight yards, and in any case he
had been told emphatically that the exhibition couldn’ t possibly be
profitable. In the end, he set tled for unveiling the scene of “Granny
Kincaid” at a Festival of Califor nia Living at the Pan-Pacific Au ditorium in
Los Angeles in November 19 52. The vitrine, roughly eight feet long,
contained tiny rugs, a plank flo or , a stone fireplace, lace curtains, dishes,
and even an ou thouse with a potty , and it featured a narration by actress
Beulah Bondi, who had played Granny Kincaid in So Dear to My Heart.
Columnist Hedd a Hopper , who had visited the festival, marveled at W alt’ s
handiwork and asked, “Why does he do it?” T o which W alt answered,
“Damned if I know .”
But he knew very well why he did it. Beyond the psychological benisons
of co ntrol and th e tactile exhilaration of his own craftsmanship,  beyond the
way it preoccupied him while  the studio seemed to wobble , he did it
because he harbored an even lar ger , more audacious plan—a plan for which
Disneylandia w as only a trial run and a plan that seemed to sustain him
even as he was losing interest in the rest of his company .
It is impossible  to say exactly when, but W alt Disney had decided to
build an amusement park.
Rudy Ising, an old Kansas Cit y friend and one of the Laugh -O-Gram
employees, recalled his and W alt’ s visits to Electric Park, an amusement
complex, and how on one of th ese excursions W alt had told hi m, “One of
these da ys I’m going to build an amusement park—and it’ s going to be
clean!” Diane Disney thought t he inception took place during the Sunday
afternoons when W alt picked the girls up from religious services—he never
attended them himself—and took them to the Grif fith Park merry-go-round,
where they would spend hours. “He’d see families in the park,” Diane
would re call, “an d say , ‘There’ s nothing for the parents to do…. Y ou’ve got
to have a place where the whole family can have fun.’” Diane thought he
used those afternoons and later ones with Sharon at a small amusement park
at La Cienega a nd Beverly in Los Angeles as a “sort of resear ch project.”