# Página 654  
with Lu ckman, a former president of Lever Brothers, to form an
architectural and engineering firm of their own. In brief, Pereira had flair .
In Ja nuary , W alt Disney Product ions agreed to give Pereira and Luckman
up t o $3,000 to help design Disneyland, after which they were to return to
W alt for further authorization. The plan was still to build the park in
Burbank. In the spring Dick Irvine was assigned to serve as a liaison
between the imaginative peo ple in the bungalow at WE D and the
architectural firm, while Marv in Davis was assigned the task of taking
Gof f ’ s sketches and turning them into elevations of the Main V illage. But
by the time Pereira and Luckman submitted their plan for the park, W alt
was beg inning to have doubts. By one account, Dr . Charles Straub, the
president of the Santa Anita T urf Club and an acquaintance  of W alt’ s,
convinced him that he didn’ t nee d a big architectural firm, that the park was
essentially a matter of entertainment rather than design, and that building
the park, in the words of one ar t director , was “very much like doing a set
for a motion picture.” W alt may have also disliked the formality of using a
lar ge fir m when  he so enjoyed  the informal excitement of W ED. By the
summer Pereira and Luckman had been terminated. WED was now on its
own.
Now they mobilized as they hadn’ t mobilized since Snow White.  Almost
from the moment W alt first hat ched the idea of a theme park, he and his
cohorts fanned out into the field for ideas. As early as March 1951 Harper
Gof f went to Europe to take photographs of parks, and by the fall even Roy
was investigating purchasing amusement rides in Europe. The following
March, Gof f was visiting New Orleans during Mardi Gras, then went on to
Atlanta to examine available t rain stock for the park. He would make
another extended reconnaissance trip a year later to New Y ork  museums,
Old Stu rbridge V illage in Massachusetts, the old Erie Canal, Greenfield
V illage in Michigan, the Linco ln Museum in Chicago, the S mithsonian
Institution in W ashington, Colo nial W illiamsbur g, Marineland in Florida,
the T allulah Falls Railroad in G eor gia, and the Steamboat Museum in St.
Louis, and he was part of a delegation that visited parks around Los
Angeles to gather information on how to run a facility . There w as so much
activity at WED that at the same time Gof f was making his tours, he was