# Página 431  
telling the Bambi  crew , “that you  don’ t find your character until you begin
to do a little animation on the m.” But the question of how  to animate
lingered. Did you assign an animator to a character throughout the film, as
they had done on Pinocchio,  o r did you ass ign him to a single scene in
which he would draw all the characters? Did you divide the film into
sequences with their own story crews and animation crews, or did you have
a single story crew and animation crew working on the whole film?
The ans wers came during a daylong meeting in the sweatbox on
September 1, 1939, the day Germany invaded Poland—an  event that
seemed to have no ef fect on the  studio. W alt, acting on a suggestion from
Milt Kahl, who protested that he had grown stale animating only Pinocchio,
decided to break the logjam by assigning Kahl, Fred Moore,  and Frank
Thomas to the project as a te am because “they have a ver y analytical
mind,” even though Kahl an d Thomas were still preoccupied with
Pinocchio  and  wouldn’ t b e available for another two months. A week lat er
Larson h ad repla ced Moore, but the idea still held that instead of parceling
out the animati on to individuals, as W alt had done on Snow White  and
Pinocchio  and as he was doing on Fantasia,  these three animators, acting
together , would control the entire animation of the film—conceptualizing
the char acters, blocking the action, and then supervising the additional
animators needed to finish the p roject. Again reversing course, he advised
that they  begin as they had on Snow White  b y concentratin g on a single
scene, the scene in which Bambi learns to walk, then master it as a guide for
the animators to come.
It was a longer process—just letting the animators draw and animate until
they got  the feel of the characters—but W alt had already conceded that
Bambi  was n’ t going to  be ready anytime soon and that Fantasia  would be
released after Pinocchio  and  that he would then release what he called
“feature shorts,”  which would b e three long cartoons packaged as a feature,
and then another feature, and then,  “maybe,” he said, Bambi.  “There would
be a  disaster her e if we started rushing everybody on this pictu re,” he told
the staf f . When Kahl asked W alt when he anticipated that actual production
would st art, W al t replied that it would start whenever Kahl and his team felt
they wer e ready  to start. He was through pushing them. “It’ s wise to move