# Página 41  
At first W alt was excited by the route. He said he enjoyed s eeing the
lamplighters turn the gas of f e very morning while he was de livering his
papers and turn it on again during his afternoon circuit. But his enthusiasm
quickly waned. The Star  had given Elias the route reluctantly , fearing he
might be too old, so he was anxious not to disappoint them. Because he
insisted that the papers be placed under a brick, so that they would not blow
away , or behind the storm doors  in winter , rather than just be to ssed on the
porch, W alt had  to go up each w alkway . Sometimes a custome r would not
see the paper between the doo rs, and Elias would have to send W alt to
redeliver it. It got worse after Roy graduated from high school and left the
route to clerk in  a bank and W alt assumed his brother ’ s route as  well. Elias
hired several other boys, but th ey were often unreliable, and once again
W alt w as dispatched to deliver the papers to homes the boys had
overlooked, whi ch is how he talked his father into getting him the bicycle.
Before that, Elias made him run to houses for missed deliveries.
It was worst, of course, in wint er , when W alt had to trudge through the
cold and  snow , slipping on the i cy steps, often crying at the knives of frost
he said he endur ed. Some of the  drifts into which he waded were so deep he
sank to his neck. At times the cold and his tiredness would co nspire, and
W alt wo uld fall asleep, curled in side his sack of papers or in the warm foyer
of an apartment house to which  he had delivered, and he would awaken to
discover it was daylight and he had to race to finish the route. What added
to th is p icture o f Dickensian drudgery was that Elias took the money W alt
had earn ed by selling his own p apers on the trolley and investe d it, so that
in additi on to delivering for the pharmacy the boy began workin g at a candy
store during school recess to earn money to buy more papers he could sell
without Elias knowing. “So the upshot of it was I was working all the
time,” he told a n interviewer . “I mean, I never had any real play time.”
What pl aytime he had was stolen from the route; he said he played with
toys he would see on the porches, then left them exactly as he found them.
In six years on the route he missed only five weeks—two with a severe
cold, a third on a visit to his aunt Josie in Hiawatha, Kansas, in 1913 (“It
stands out in memory ,” he wrote his aunt, “because it was one of the few
vacations that my Mother and Father ever had”), and two more in 1916,
when he kicked a piece of ice  with a new boot he had jus t gotten for