# Página 512  
The studio needed work. In the short term, while W alt waited for his
government solicitations to bear  more fruit, the South American films were
his lifeline. Even late in the afte rnoon on the day of the Pearl Harbor attack,
a Sunday , he was at the studio di scussing how to enliven these c artoons. His
intention, he told The New Y orker ,  was not to repeat the mistakes of his
more imposing and financially unsuccessful features, which he now
apparently felt had been too  car efully tended. “I’m going t o make these
South American pictures simple and not arty ,” he said in a complete
reversal of his u sual working arrangements. “The best way is to work of f-
the-cuf f. Don’ t have any script but just go along and nobody kn ows what’ s
going to happen until it’ s happened.”
The original plan had been to make a series of South American –themed
shorts, t welve in all, that would nevertheless be released on  the world
market with, Roy told their distributor RKO, “just as broad appeal as our
present subjects .” RKO was unconvinced. Already in January the producer
David O . Selznick, who had al so gotten involved with the Coordinator ’ s
Of fice t hrough an or ganization  called the Motion Picture Society for the
Americas, was lobbying W alt a nd Jock Whitney to package th e shorts as
features, which he thought would give them both greater visibility and
greater s alability , and W alt began to warm to the idea as a way o f stretching
his staf f artistically and fulfillin g their Silly Symphony commitments. “If
the 12 South Am erican Shorts can be put into Packages of 4 each, making 3
in all, to be released during this year ,” he wrote Roy , “I think we could
enlar ge our Shorts Program whi ch would give us a chance to in clude some
Silly Sy mphony ideas that are now in various stages of production in the
plant.” T o tie these disparate shorts together under the lar ger rubric of South
America, however , W alt had to use 16mm film footage t hat he had
personally shot during his trip, apologizing to Selznick for “my bad
photography and nervous hand.”
Now came the deluge. On his trip to W ashington the previous December ,
W alt had been encouraged by Jock Whitney to see if he could help convince