# Página 344  
would later marry dancer and choreographer Gower Champion and form a
popular dance team with him in the 1950s.) W alt had even attempted to
combine live footage of Belcher with a model of the dwarfs’ cottage as
designed by Albert Hurter . These films were intended to provide inspiration
or suggest movement and behavior . “I think you can use this live action to
get perso nalities, etc. that you ar e bound to absorb ideas that creep into your
work,” F red Mo ore said at one meeting, while Art Babbitt, say ing that the
animators had been focusing too narrowly on mechanics, claimed that “we
are g etting something now that would take us years and years to acquire.”
By F ebruary all the important action of the dwarfs was being shot live first,
and the animators were actually going to the soundstage and directing the
live-action scenes themselves—with Pinto Colvig putting on a big nose and
playing Grumpy  or Sneezy or Eddie Collins playing Dopey or Dave Hand
or P erce Pearce playing the other dwarfs to an audio playback of the
dialogue. The animator then watched the developed film through a
viewfinder and chose poses he liked. W alt feared that the animators would
wind up  copying  the live action— “Stress the point over and ove r again that
when drawing models, get the fe eling behind the models instead of copying
them,” Babbitt told one meeting in expressing W alt’ s view—and explicitly
ordered, as Sharpsteen recalled, that “he did not want any animators tracing
that character and putting it on the screen as a tracing; they had to use it
only as a guide.”
But under the increasing pressure, W alt’ s order was breached. The staf f
had to trace live  action—what was called “rotoscoping”—to fin ish the film
on time.  “Live action is what is going to lick the picture,” Hand  announced
at one luncheon meeting in mid-February . Though Ham Luske was
recommending t hat they bring in child actors to play the dwa rfs in scale,
this was especially true of S now White and the Queen—the human
characters that were still proving so dif ficult to animate well. Already by
March, P erce Pearce was suggesting that they do more rotoscopi ng of Snow
White—“There is a lot of Sn ow White that has to be worked out in
rotoscope”—and by June, photo stats of the Queen coming down the stairs
were being given to the in-betweeners to trace. There were certainly
misgivings abou t having to do this, a sense almost of cheating, though the
live action often betrayed how far the animators still had to go to capture