# Página 716  
didn’ t se em to be too important, but it’ s an entirely dif ferent si tuation now
with the boys on hand.”
Diane ha d fallen in love with a tall, strapping, handsome end on  the USC
football team named Ron Mille r , though it was her father who suggested
she mar ry him because Miller w as about to go into the armed forces, and
W alt wa s worried Diane might marry “Mr . W rong” while Mille r was gone.
(Inviting his brother Herbert to the wedding, W alt called Miller a
“wonderful boy —a big six-foot athlete whom we all love.”) They were
married on May 9, 1954, in the ivy-clad All Saints by the Sea Episcopal
Church in Montecito, Californi a, up the coast from Los Angeles, in what
was desc ribed as a “football” ceremony . The minister who of fic iated was a
former f ootball p layer and coach, and the five-tier cake was topped not with
figurines of a bride and groom but with two football players—one male,
one female.
They w asted little time in starting a family . Diane gave birth to
Christopher Dis ney Miller on December 10, seven months and one day
after the wedding. Except for the name, W alt was ecstatic. “Diane pulled a
name ou t of the blue,” he wrote an associate, obviously wou nded. “She
seemed determin ed no son of hers was going to be tagged wit h my name.
She had  a particular aversion to the ‘Elias’ part of it.” Actually , Diane had
thought of calling the child W alt er , then decided that he was “a n ew person”
and needed a ne w name. She sai d later that she regretted it. Still, W alt doted
on h im a s he had doted on his daughters. He would introduce Diane now as
the “custodian of his grandson.”
By the time R on completed his military obligations at For t Ord in
northern Califor nia, Diane had had a second child, Joanna, born in April
1956, and W alt was building the family a house in Encino, in the San
Fernando V alley , one that he had personally designed after rejecting each of
Ron and Diane’ s choices. While the house was being constructed, the
Millers moved in with W alt an d Lillian at Carolwood, and though W alt
conceded that “it gets a bit hec tic at times, Granddaddy and G randma are
having the time of their lives wi th little Chris and Joanna. Joanna is as cute
a little pixie as ever drew a bre ath and Chris is still as wonderful as ever .”