# Página 338  
so much  more painterly the studio created a new texture by wetting the
paper , sq ueezing of f the excess m oisture, and then applying watercolor with
washes.
Y et however much the muted p alette and detailed layouts contributed to
realism and however much they suggested depth, when W alt s poke of the
latter he was not only being figurative. He meant “depth” literally as well—
another means of shaping a more fully realized environment, for  a man who
was alw ays seeking to shape his environment to his own specifications. He
was also thinking of the audien ce, which was accustomed to depth from
live-action films.* “He was afraid eighty minutes of flat, one-dimensional
animation would prove too hard for the public to take,” his daughter Diane
would w rite, reiterating W alt’ s ar gument about the need for subtler colors.
Audiences neede d more visual v ariety in a feature than they got in animated
shorts.
The problem with traditional  animation was that it was virtually
impossible to replicate the changing perspectives of real life without
constantly changing the size of the backgrounds in relation to the animated
figures—a task that was prohibitively expensive. Ken Anderson
remembered W alt, in discussion s on Snow White  as early  as 1935, pushing
for better ways to create the illusion of depth, and that year he had
Anderson draw both the figures and the backgrounds in a scene for a Silly
Symphony titled Thr ee Orphan Kittens,  apparently just so W alt could see
what a more realistic, ever -chan ging perspective would look like. W anting
to push further for Snow White,  W alt assigned Anderson to work with
special ef fects animator Cy Y o ung, lighting expert Hal Halvenston, and
engineer Bill Garity to create ac tual layers of action for a test of  the peddler
woman in the forest—layers  that would convey actual depth and
perspective that  a single cel set onto a background could not convey . As
Anderson recalled it, they modeled trees from clay in the foreground and
then dre w three planes of anim ated trees receding into the frame, which
they placed on l ar ge glass plates. The trees, the plates, and the camera were
then mounted on sawhorses as t he crew experimented with distances. W alt
was ple ased with the result and ordered another test—this time of the
dwarfs’ cottage and Snow White. The real showcase, however , came when