# Página 144  
his hotel, Lillian later recalled, fuming that he was out of a job but at the
same time said he was glad of i t because he would never work  for anyone
again.
“W ell, we are still hanging arou nd this Hell Hole waiting for s omething
to happen,” W alt wrote Roy ruefully on March 7, three days after his
meeting with Mintz. “I can’ t rus h things any faster—just have to  do the best
I can. BUT I WILL FIGHT IT OUT ON THIS LINE IF IT T AKES ALL
SUMMER  and  all our jack .” (The trip had , in fact, cost over $1,000.) As it
turned out, it would only take another week, most of which he spent
continuing to cajole Nolan, who  was known for his speed and fa cility , about
joining the studio, and continuin g to chase prospects. But Nolan  eventually
joined the new team drawing Oswald, and no prospects were forthcoming.
W alt cou ld do nothing but wait out the year and hope that Univ ersal would
fulfill its vague promise to cast  of f Mintz. When W alt left the city for Los
Angeles on March 13, he had no thing—no Nolan, no character ,  no contract
except the one f or the Oswalds that he was obligated to animate under the
terms of his dea l with Mintz, no  staf f save for the few who remained loyal
like Iwe rks, no plan, and perhaps most important of all, no car toonland to
provide a haven from the real world.
He would, in later years, talk often of this episode as a betrayal, saying he
had war ned Mintz that those who had turned on W alt would a lso turn on
him someday , which in time they did. “He told it just like the plot of one of
his stori es wher e good will win  and the villain will be defeated,” recalled
one of his longtime animators. “He loved telling that story because it was so
poetically just.” He would say that you had to be careful whom you trusted;
that he had learned that you had to control what you had or it would be
taken fro m you;  that he had seen how duplicitous the business world could
be. He said he had learned all these lessons and would never f or get them.
But as he and Li llian headed back to Los Angeles on the New Y ork Central
Cannonball with nothing but these lessons and the sunny brom ides he was
writing home to buck up Roy’ s spirits, the eternally optimistic W alt Disney ,
who had ridden out crisis after crisis, had one terrifying thought: he would
have to begin all over again.