# Página 172  
to New Y ork an d continued the recruiting drive, even attemp ting to pry
loose ve teran animator Dick Huemer for a possible Mickey Mouse comic
strip, w ithout success. Even so, by August W alt was employing eight
animators on a staf f of twenty—eight of the top animators in the business.  
The studio to wh ich the newcomers came, set in the hinterland of the Silver
Lake dis trict of Los Angeles, which one visitor described as “one of those
endless suburba n settings of B arcelona bungalows, pink ros es and red
filling s tations,” was still, after three years, physically underwhelming. It
consisted of the one stucco build ing, the original bungalow , with of fices for
Roy and W alt and a lar ge room that was divided by a partition down the
center—ink and  paint on one side, animation on the other . Next to this main
building was a small shed where canisters of film and old dra wings were
stored, a nd behind that was th e stage on which W alt had shot the later
Alices. By the sp ring of 1929 W alt had begun making small additions as the
need arose. There was what S harpsteen called a “nubbin” for a camera
room to shield the animators fr om the disturbance of the camera’ s noise,
though a chimes factory next door once tested a doorbell all day , nearly
driving the artists crazy . There was also another addition, about fourteen
feet squa re, that W alt called the “music room” because he kept a piano there
for Stalling to use, and shortly afterward a lar ger addition for more of fices.
All told, these later constructions tripled the original space.
But if the ef fec t was slapdash and haphazard, the operation inside was
anything but—at least compared to the low standards of the rest of the
animation industry . When Sharpsteen had met W alt that afternoon at
Hyperion, W alt had passionately expressed his longstanding conviction that
“his salvation was in making a product that so excelled that the public
would recogniz e it and enjoy it as the best entertainment and that they
would m ore or less demand to see Disney pictures.” Fro m his own
experience in animation, where everything seemed to be done  on the fly ,
Sharpsteen thou ght that W alt was being overly ambitious, but he soon
realized that the Disney studio was a “complete reversal” of what he had