# Página 500  
employees. At the same time all the bonuses and incentive plans were
discontinued. Ev en W alt’ s beloved art classes were disbanded. “My wife
used to accuse me of running a Communistic outfit,” Dick Huem er recalled
W alt remarking grimly . “W ell, all that is over now .”
“From a ll the reports I get and my own observations, I feel there  is a new
life, understand ing and appreciation on the part of the pre sent Studio
personnel,” Roy  wrote W alt tha t October . “I really think a lot of good will
has come out of all our past trouble and that we are now on a good firm
basis on  which to go ahead.” B ut this was wishful thinking. N othing good
had com e of it, unless one regarded the necessary belt-tigh tening as a
blessing. W ith another round of layof fs that November , the  number of
employees at the studio was more than halved. Making the best of it, W alt
later cla imed that this move was a necessary pur gative and that he had rid
the studio of a bad element. “Sometimes you’ve got to kind of build
yourself up and explode,” he would say . “And then you kind of begin to
pick up the pieces and kind of take stock, you know?”
But thi s was a rationalizatio n. Between the downsizing and the
recriminations following the strike, he would lose some of his best
animators, including Bill T ytla, who had animated the washing sequence in
Snow White,  th e devil in the  “Bald Mountain” sequence in Fantasia,  and
Stromboli, the cruel puppetmas ter , in Pinocchio.  “He was aloof; he just
stayed by himself,” Bob Carlso n, his onetime assistant, observed of T ytla
after the strike. “He just came to work and stayed in his room  and went
home.” Though  he persevered as long as he could, eventua lly , feeling
discriminated against by W alt for having struck, he left for the Paul T erry
studio in  the East. Others left too, among them some of the most innovative
young a nimators in the studio, like W alt Kelly , who later created the
popular Pogo  comic strip, and  John Hubley , w ho became a highly regarded
experimental an imator in his own right. Some, like Hubley , jo ined former
Disney animato r Frank T ashlin at the Screen Gems studio, where, in
Hubley’ s words, “W e were doing a lot of crazy things that w ere anti the
classic Disney approach.”