# Página 259  
drawing extrem es, he could get looser , more active, mor e powerful
animation than if they had to concern themselves with drawing more
cleanly f or ink and paint. By the  early 1930s W alt was insisting that his best
animators draw roughly and that the assistants in cleaning up  a drawing
then act ually “[m ]ake it stronger than it has been drawn,” in E ric Larson’ s
words, so that the process pro duced bold, striking work. (Thomas and
Johnston said that this redrawing helped account for the be auty of the
animation at the time.) Some had a dif ficult time adjusting. One animator ,
Jack Kin g, so resisted W alt’ s injunction that he had his assistants rough up
his clean drawings until W alt caught him and exploded.
Once the key animators got their handouts, they proceeded to draw poses.
(Eventually they began makin g “pose tests” in which the poses were
photographed so that the animators could see how the poses registered on
the screen.) The rough animation led to the pencil tests, after which
animators would  revise their drawings, and then to the sweatb ox sessions
with W alt, which were the anim ators’ equivalent of the storyboard sessions
and just as grueling. “A sweatbox session could determine a man’ s fate in
the or ganization; a good session could lead to fame and fortune, a bad one
to th e ot her side of the main gat e,” wrote Jack Kinney , who wo uld work as
both an animato r and a director . “Consequently , as the session progressed,
the air became hot, then steamy , and even gamy as a result of all the
perspiration, carbon monoxide, and shattered hopes floating a bout in the
gloom.” That didn’ t change even when the sweatbox was reloca ted from its
alcove under the stairwell to an air -conditioned projection room.  After these
sessions changes were made, a L eica reel was shot, and finally a rough reel
was assembled of the cartoon not yet cleaned up or inked and painted.
Now came yet a nother quality control. W alt would screen the rough tests
for e ach animation at noon on the soundstage for the staf f and pass out
questionnaires f or comments, just as he had during the storybo ard review .
He would also record the audience reaction on acetate disks so he could
hear precisely what worked and  what didn’ t. Only then, after changes had
been made in accordance with the response, would the animation be
cleaned up, inked, painted, a nd photographed by a camera in which
compressed air held the cels while the operator pressed a button to activate