# Página 22  
later , again without his fortune, built himself a new frame house on his land,
and reluctantly resumed farming.
But that did not last either . Hearing of a gold strike in Californ ia, he set
out in 1877 with eighteen-year -old Elias and his second-eldest son, Robert.
They got only as far as Kansas when Kepple changed plans and purchased
just over three hundred acres from the Union Pacific Railroad, which was
trying to  entice people to settle at division points along the train route it was
laying th rough the state. (Since the Disneys were not American citizens,
they cou ld not acquire land under the Homestead Act.) The area in which
the fam ily settled, Ellis County in the northwestern quadrant of Kansas
about ha lfway across the state, was frontier and rough. Indian massacres
were fresh in m emory , and the Disneys themselves waited out  one Indian
scare by stationing themselves a ll night at their windows with guns. Crime
was ram pant too . One visitor ca lled the county seat, Hays, the  “Sodom of
the Plains.”
The clim ate turn ed out to be as inhospitable as the inhabitants— dry and
bitter co ld. At times it was so d if ficult to farm that the men would join the
railroad crews while their wives scavenged for buf falo bones to sell to
fertilizer manuf acturers. Most of those who stayed on the land turned to
livestock since the fields rippled  with yellow buf falo grass on which sheep
and cows could graze. Farming there either broke men or hardened them, as
Elias would be hardened, but being as opportunistic as his Disney forebears,
he had no more interest in farming than his father had. He wanted escape.
Father a nd son now set their si ghts on Florida. The winter of  1885–86
had been especially brutal in E llis. W ill Disney , Kepple’ s youngest son,
remembered the snow drifting into ten-to-twelve-foot banks, forcing the
settlers f rom the  wagon trains h eading west to camp in the schoolhouse for
six w eeks until the weather broke. The snow was so deep that the train
tracks were cleared only when six engines were hitched to a dead
locomotive with  a snowplow an d made run after run at the dr ifts, inching
forward and backing up, gradu ally nudging through. Kepple, tired of the
cruel Kansas weather , decided to join a neighbor family on a