# Página 522  
once existed to make films, now made films so that it could continue to
exist. T o W alt, who understood exactly what was happening, it was
dispiriting.
While V ictory  seeme d to satisfy his need for a major project
commensurate w ith his ambitions, he was also looking for a pro perty for an
animated war film that might h ave commercial possibilities, since he was
stymied from making his own e ntertainment features. He thought he might
have fou nd one that July when he received a story from a youn g Royal Air
Force lieutenant named Roald Dahl. Dahl’ s story concerned “gremlins,”
fictional creatures who were blamed for the various little malfunctions that
seemed to bedevil war pilots. W alt clearly liked the idea, especially after a
brief national gremlin craze that fall, and he managed to deter other studios
from ma king gremlin films of their own by saying that he was  putting one
into pro duction. W alt eagerly commissioned a script, and Dahl visited the
studio th at November , but the project seemed as vexing as the gremlins
themselves. Even before signin g the contract, Roy complained that Dahl
failed to give a logical reason or motive for the gremlins’ behavior . Perce
Pearce t hought that the only fe asible approach would combine live action
with ani mation, but that no matt er what they tried, the gremlins  were “very
very hea vy villains” for mucking up the planes and threatenin g the pilots.
W ard Ki mball sa id that one problem was that no one seemed to know what
a gremlin should look like.
Dahl ret urned to the studio in April 1943 to develop the film, and W alt
continued trying  to hammer the story into shape, but his interest had begun
to w ane as he confronted the material’ s problems. One artist a ccompanied
W alt to a meet ing of RAF fl iers to discuss their encounters with the
“gremlins,” but the fliers prefer red to tell stories instead, and W alt left at
midnight, frustrated, declaring that he wasn’ t going to mak e the film.
“Definitely , the GREMLINS  w ill not be ma de as a feature because of the
feeling on the Distributor ’ s part that the public has become tired of so many
war films,” W alt wrote Dahl in December 1943, after what was  now a year
and a half of attempting to crack the story . He said he had tried to interest
his c rews in making it into a s hort but had had little success there either .