# Página 605  
train with a whistle and real smoke comes out of the stack—there are
switches, semaphores, stations and everything. It’ s wonderful!” W alt was
actually soft-pe daling his new train set. In actuality , with the help of a
machinist in the studio shop, Roger Broggie, he had built an elaborate
layout in the of f ice. According to one visitor , it was lar ge enough to fill half
of a two-car garage, boasting two trains with tunnels, miniature towns, and
lead cou nterweights to raise and lower bridges. He loved playing with it,
but when it was  finished, he asked Broggie, “This is an electric train. Now
what’ s for real?”
In point of fact, W alt had seen what was for real when he saw Kimball’ s
engine. When Kimball invited animator Ollie Johnston to W alt’ s of fice to
look at W alt’ s e lectric train, Johnston told W alt about a one-twelfth-scale
steam locomotiv e that he was having built for his yard in the Sierra Madre
foothills, and W alt began visiting the machine shop in Santa Monica, where
the part s for Johnston’ s railroad were being milled. Meanwhile Kimball
introduced W alt  to another train enthusiast, Dick Jackson, who had made a
fortune in auto accessories before retiring and devoting himself to scale
railroads. W alt, along with Lillian and Sharon, visited Jackson at his
Beverly Hills home and got to run Jackson’ s steam engine. W alt had met yet
another railroad  buf f that sprin g, W illiam “Casey” Jones, who also had a
scale railroad at his home in L os Gatos and who also let W alt work the
throttle. “Personally , I envy you for having the courage to do what you
want,” W alt wrote Jones, clearly thinking of his own predicament.
Now W alt wanted a train of his  own—not a model but a real train that
was just  lar ge enough for him to sit on. He had Richard Jones, the head of
the studio machine shop, begin making discreet inquiries of people who
might be willing to sell miniature trains—discreet because he obviously did
not wan t potential sellers to kn ow that it was W alt Disney who wished to
make the purchase. Jones also placed an ad in Railr oad Magazine
requesting information on where he might buy a live-steam eight-gauge or
sixteen-gauge railway , and he wrote other enthusiasts for information on
how to lay a mi le of miniature track. Later that summer W alt and Sharon
attended a fair of little engines in Lomita, California. When he returned to
the stud io, he had Dick Jones and Eddie Sar geant, a draftsman, draw up