# Página 661  
feel is important.” By the time WED was in operation, Burbank began to
balk, fea ring how  a park might af fect the calm of the community . “Burbank
city did  not want a kiddieland in Burbank,” John Cowles , who had
negotiated with the city , recalle d. Meanwhile W alt scouted a p olice pistol
range in the Chatsworth area of the San Fernando V alley; Palos V erdes
south of  Los Angeles; a 440-a cre spread called Descanso Gardens (W alt
concluded “it is in the wrong area”); Calabasas, where Roy bought a plot of
forty acr es front ing the parcel on  mar gin, to protect the plot; and Sepulveda;
and he sent Dick Irvine and an other WED employee, Nat W inecof f, on a
mission down the Santa Ana Freeway to survey possible sites there.
He wanted a big site now , but th e decision was too complex and dif ficult
and the stakes far too great to be left to W alt’ s band of happy amateurs. At a
party th at summer Charles Luckman introduced W alt to Harrison “Buzz”
Price of  the Stanford Research Institute (SRI), who had done surveys for
Luckman on a st adium project in Hawaii, and suggested that W alt hire Price
to exam ine sites  for Disneyland. W alt and Price met in July 1953, and W alt
explained that he had conceptualized the entrance down Main St reet and the
four lands radiating from it and that it would need roughly one hundred
acres, but that he had no idea  where the park should be located. Price
agreed to have his of fice anal yze potential areas, which were promptly
narrowed down from ten (in a la r ge square that was bounded by  Chatsworth
on th e n orth, T u stin on the south , Pomona on the east, and the o cean on the
west) to four along the Santa Ana Freeway corridor that W inecof f and
Irvine h ad investigated. When Price issued his report late that August, he
concluded that Los Angeles was becoming increasingly decentralized and
that the highest rate of growth w as likely to be in Orange County , just south
of L .A., whose population had swelled by 65.4 percent from 1940 to 1950
and by another 30.4 percent in the three years from 1950 to 19 53. Orange
County also seemed to have the least rainfall, the least humidity , and the
least extreme temperatures of t he areas under consideration, and perhaps
best of all, it was well situated  for transportation. After eliminating more
than forty sites in and around Orange County (for reasons ra nging from
sporting unsight ly oil wells to housing a labor camp for Mexican nationals),
SRI settled on a 160-acre parcel in Anaheim called the Ball Road
subdivision, wh ich was basically a lar ge grove of orange trees, four