# Página 445  
studio was in no  position to tak e immediate advantage of that success—a
situation worsened by the unexpected problems and postponements on
Pinocchio  and Bambi.  It  worsened eve n more with the ef fects of the war in
Europe and Pinocchio ’ s disappointing  returns. At t he same time the
Burbank studio,  when all was said and done, had cost nearly $3 million, a
million more than the projectio ns, and Fantasia  was  costing we ll over $2
million—all of which meant that the studio had nearly $8  million in
outstanding investments. From having reaped a profit of $1.25  million in
fiscal year 1939, the studio was reporting a loss of $260,000 in fiscal year
1940. In addition, after paying of f its loans with the profits from Snow
White,  the company had gone back into debt and owed the Bank of America
$4.5 mil lion. W ith so little mon ey coming in, Roy was summ oned to the
bank’ s San Francisco headquar ters for a discussion of the situation, and
described the atmosphere as “real cool,” until Doc Giannini once again
came to  the Disneys’ defense, asking his staf f how many Disney pictures
they had seen. When they col lectively stammered, he said he had seen
nearly a hundred, then declared, “I suggest that we give these boys a
chance. This war won’ t last forever .”
But it wasn’ t that easy . On top  of the money hemorrhaging from the
features, it also was draining from the shorts, which the studio was still
contractually ob ligated to produce. Though W alt had delegated much of the
responsibility for the shorts to his staf f, he still met with the story crews,
approved the scripts, and examined the storyboards. They did b ring in over
a million  dollars in rental incom e, but the rentals didn’ t keep pace with the
costs—W alt est imated that he spent $45,000 on a typical sh ort without
factoring in the expenses for prints, marketing, distribution, or what Roy
called “administrative overhead”—and the net income scarcel y exceeded
that from merchandise, comics , and licenses. Moreover , W alt had grown
increasingly resentful of having  to make them, not only because they gave
so li ttle return o n the investment but because he felt he had outgrown them.
Though many of the animators were idle while Bambi  was being readied for
production and Peter Pan  and Alice in W onderland  we re being written,
W alt co mplained to Geor ge Morris that he would not reassign animators
from the features to the shorts b ecause, he told Morris, “[Y]ou spend a hell
of a lot of money and what have you got?”