# Página 502  
your seat like that.” But they wer e  afraid. “He had a way of giving you the
evil eye, with his finger pointed at your chest, that was very intimidating,”
Jack Kinney would write. “H e’d punctuate his words with ‘y’know ,
y’know , y’know ,’ until you were answering ‘yeah, yeah, yeah’—whether
you knew what he was talking about or not.”
The fear was so thick that anyone who was thought to be out  of favor
with W alt became a pariah with everyone else at the studio. On one
occasion layout artist Ken Anderson inadvertently singed W alt’ s mustache
while lighting a cigarette with a new lighter during a storybo ard session,
and W al t jumpe d out of his chair , howled at Anderson, “Wh at the God
damn hell are y ou trying to do, burn me up?” and ran out of the room.
Anderson threw  away the lighter and never smoked again. Me anwhile no
one at the studio would talk to him. Anderson admitted he cried and thought
he w ould be fir ed, though this time W alt called him, asked him to lunch,
and dem onstrated to the staf f that Anderson was back in his good graces. It
was a rare instance of benevolence.
Beyond the fear he inspired, W alt now displayed a vindictiveness,
occasionally even bordering on cruelty , that hadn’ t been there si nce his days
with Mintz—a cruelty that only his most ardent supporters could excuse as
pushing for improvement. He could be scathing to an errant employee,
embarrassing him  in front of the entire staf f. “Y ou’d go to a meeting and try
to be as invisible as possible because you wanted to avoid this,” W ard
Kimball said. On one occasion a story sketch artist visibly grimaced as W alt
was about to plu ck one of the man’ s sketches from the storyboard, so W alt
“carefully and deliberately ,” according to Frank Thomas and Ollie
Johnston, “pulle d down that ske tch and the next three clear of f the board,
tearing the corners where the pushpins had held them captive; then he
released the paper to let it flutte r helplessly to the floor .” Anot her time he
screened some old footage that Ben Sharpsteen had animated, then ridiculed
it before  the staf f. “[H]is whole approach to everybody ,” Kimbal l said, “was
to put somebody down.”
But he reserved his greatest wrath for the man he believed was most
responsible for ruining his para dise. Art Babbitt had returned to the studio