# Página 520  
Still, W alt saw aesthetic possibilities too. Though he called it a “bastard
picture,” like The Reluctant Dragon,  sin ce it comb ined live scenes of
Seversky lecturing with animati on illustrating his points just as Dragon  had
combined Robert Benchley and animation, and since, as in Dragon,  the
animation itself was less refined than in the features, he spoke glowingly of
how the animators could present the future. “[W]e can show torpedoes
striking ships,” he said. “W e can show huge car go and bombing planes such
as S eversky foresees.” He wa s especially excited by a pro jected final
sequence that showed the enemy as an octopus and America as an eagle.
“Y ou bomb the heart of the octopus and we show the big thing as we hit it,”
he gushed, “hammer on the vita ls of the things, it knocks out the supplies
and weakens every tentacle…wh ile we’re hammering away at the tentacles,
we’re st ill driving at the heart with our American air power .” A s W alt saw
it, th is w asn’ t go ing to be ordin ary propaganda, any more than the features
were ordinary cartoons. This  was going to be great, earth-shaking
propaganda. “The basic idea is big,” he wrote Perce Pearce, Dave Hand,
and the film’ s screenwriter , R . C. Sherrif f, after hearing th at audience
interest was high. “It is the first time that Gallup has been able t o report this
on any picture h e has surveyed,” and W alt ur ged that they try to rush the
film out no later than December to take advantage of public anticipation.
W alt began shooting Seversky ’ s scenes in early October 1942. The
filming had to take place at night because of the roar of plane s taking of f
and landing nearby at the Lo ckheed plant during the day . Given the
schedule, it was hectic. “I’ve scarcely been in my of fice for the last ten
days,” W alt wro te producer W alter W anger at the end of the m onth, “what
with sho oting live action on the de Seversky [film] along with everything
else, I haven’ t ha d a minute at my desk.” He was haggard-looking and worn
too, ofte n unshaven and bedraggled in his loose pants and open-collar
shirts. B ut for all the time he devoted to his oversight of V ictory ,  W alt was,
as u sual, not en tirely satisfied. W atching the rushes, he complained that
Seversky kept saying the same thing over and over again and that he was
skipping information that the public needed to appreciate his theory . He
also felt  that they might be rel ying too heavily on what he called visual
“stunts” and suggested that they turn “our thinking from tric ks to guts.”
And W a lt worried that time was running out. As he told two visiting United