# Página 619  
popularity is dif ficult to say . But Cinder ella —with an ef fervescent score
and a tense subplot of helpful mice menaced by a wicked fe line named
Lucifer (W alt had asked W ard K imball to model it on one of Kimball’ s own
cats)—was a more fully realized and dramatic animation than any the studio
had done since Bambi,  and it received the best reception a Disney animation
had gotten since Dumbo.  I n personal co rrespondence d irector Michael
Curtiz h ailed it as the “masterpiece of all pictures you have done .” Producer
Hal W allis declared, “If this is not your best, it is very close to the top.”
W alter W anger wrote him, “Y ou are still the number one producer on my
‘Hit Par ade.’” When it opened in February 1950, most reviewers were
equally ef fusive. Cinder ella  was an unqualified critical hit, and it would
soon join the early Disney features as an acknowledged classic.
Far more important for the studio, Cinder ella  was  a financial  success as
well. Sa iling fro m New Y ork to  London, Roy wrote W alt, “I feel stronger
than ever that w e should do in the United States and Canada a m inimum of
$5,000,000. I wouldn’ t be surpri sed if we hit $6,000,000. It is th e talk of the
business.” In the final analysis, Roy had actually underestimated the film’ s
return. Cinder ella  h ad cost the s tudio $2.2 million. It would gross $7.9
million. And that didn’ t include what the film generated in sales of
merchandise and  music, especially since one of the film’ s song s, “Bibbidi-
Bobbidi-Boo,” became a popular hit and would receive an Academy A ward
nomination. The  film, the failu re of which would have sunk the Disney
studio, wound up rescuing it from financial disaster and spiritual despair .
Y et W al t Disney didn’ t seem p articularly elated. He saw the problems
and the compromises and the shattered camaraderie, and even as  he focused
on his trains and his new house, he began looking elsewhere to recover
what he felt had  been stolen fr om him and to find what he hoped would
save him . He was looking to create an even better fortress for himself, an
even more perfect world than the world of animation had been.