# Página 264  
California, to explain to the befuddled guests, “I’m afraid I’ll have to accept
the awa rd for Mr . Disney mys elf. His wife is going to present him with
another kind of award. He is on his way to become a pare nt and thus
become a fully qualified reade r of the magazine which is honoring him
today .” W alt arr ived at the hosp ital just before the delivery . Lill ian said she
knew he had arrived when she heard his distinctive hacking c ough. “AM
PROUD F A THE R OF BABY G IRL LILLIE AND BABY DOING FINE,”
he wired Roy , w ho was on a train bound for home after fighting  a copyright
infringement suit in New Y ork. The Disneys now had a new e ight-pound-
two-ounce daughter: Diane Marie Disney .  
As for W alt’ s an imated of fspring, Mickey Mouse, he was still thriving, even
as W alt’ s attention had been div erted to the Silly Symphony ca rtoons. The
three lit tle pigs, W alt admitted, had overshadowed Mickey , and W alt told
one repo rter that he was disappointed, but added, “I’ll think of something
that will  bring Mickey back big ger than ever .” In fact, though the pigs had
swept th e nation , Mickey continued over the following two year s to enjoy a
popularity that rivaled that of C haplin in his heyday . The Mickey Mouse
Clubs th rived, a nd W alt boasted, with a heavy dose of hyperbole, that the
membership had swelled to fifty million by the fall of 1933. Less
hyperbolically , Literary Digest  re porte d that Mickey played before nearly
500 million paid admissions in 1935. He also continued to receive
accolades from nearly every quarter . Gilbert Seldes, writing in Esquir e,
gushed of Mickey’ s first color  cartoon, The Band Concert,  that none of
“dozens of works produced in A merica at the same time in all th e other arts
can stand comparison with this one,” and The Nation  extolled Mickey as the
“supreme artisti c achievement of the moving picture.” Even First Lady
Eleanor Roosevelt once commented that her husband “loved Mickey
Mouse, and he always had to have that cartoon in the White Hou se,” though
perhaps the highest compliment paid to Mickey was by a patient in a New
Y ork City convalescent home who was so overcome during a Mickey
Mouse screening that he for got his crutches and walked out of the theater
unassisted.