# Página 795  
But W al t seemed immune to th e criticism. The fair hadn’ t been about
pleasing intellec tuals. It had bee n a rehearsal. The Carousel of Progress was
shipped back to Disneyland, w here it was installed without th e Skydome
Spectacular and the nuclear fission demonstration but with a d iorama of a
futuristic city . It’ s a Small W orld was also shipped back to Ca lifornia and
opened at Disneyland under the sponsorship of the Bank of America. Even
before the fair ended, the new and improved Abraham Lincoln debuted at
Disneyland as part of the park’ s tenth-anniversary celebration. Only Ford,
despite W alt’ s enticements, deci ded not to transfer its exhibit to Disneyland,
though W alt did take the dinosa urs and later set them up at the park as part
of D isneyland’ s Primeval W orld  along the Santa Fe & Disneyland Railroad.
Meanwhile, W a lt was inundated with of fers from around the world to do
similar p rojects. Madame T ussa ud’ s W ax Museum even asked him to do an
Audio-Animatronic W inston Churchill. Though W alt declined these
invitations, he had always intended to use the exhibits to  lure other
corporations to sponsor attractions at Disneyland, and as the fair was
winding down, Jack Sayers was meeting with IBM, Johnson’ s W ax, Hertz,
Clairol, and the House of Formica to gauge their interest.
But it wasn’ t only the exhibits t hat W alt was taking from the fair . At the
end of the first  season he had  invited Major General W illiam E. “Joe”
Potter , t he fair ’ s executive vice president, to the studio to discuss the
possibility of his joining the company in a special and highly secret
capacity , and Potter had agreed  to do so. Potter ’ s role was to head a new
project—Project Future, the Disneys initially labeled it—for which the fair
had been what Card W alker ca lled a “testing ground.” Now , with Potter
aboard, the test was over , and the next phase, the “little thing” that would
keep him from obsessing over how to top Mary Poppins,  wa s about to
begin—except it wasn’ t little. It was lar ge—lar ge beyond belief.
V
Almost as soon as Disneylan d opened, W alt had been pep pered with
questions about whether he wou ld build another theme park. In fact, though
W alt always disavowed plans to erect a new park, claiming that Disneyland