# Página 752  
question about the fate of civilization was raised all because Nikita
Khrushchev had been, as he put  it, “deprived of the pleasure of visiting the
city of Fantasy .”  
He was king, if no longer of animation, then of American popular culture
generally . W ith the success of Disneyland and his visibility on the television
show , W alt Disney’ s personal status was higher than it had ever been—as
high as anyone’ s in the country . The Screen Producers Guild unanimously
awarded him its Lewis Milestone A ward for his “historical contribution to
the American motion picture.” The United States Olympic Committee
appointed him the chairman of its Pageantry Committee for the 1960 W inter
Games, to be h eld at Squaw V alley , California, and W alt p lanned and
oversaw the torch relay , the o pening and closing ceremoni es, and the
awarding of the medals. President Eisenhower named him to the President’ s
Committee on Education, which  was char ged with holding a conference on
education beyon d high school, though W alt later tendered his resignation,
calling himself unqualified since he had never gone beyond the first year of
high school. Eisenhower ’ s successor , President John F . Kennedy , appointed
W alt to  a nine-member executive committee under E isenhower ’ s
chairmanship to lead the People to People program, which was designed to
promote cultural, scientific, and athletic contacts between countries. The
students of T ullytown, Pennsy lvania, voted to name their school in his
honor , and Marceline named its new elementary school for hi m too. (His
grammar school  desk from Marceline’ s old Park School, carved with his
initials, was placed in a glass case in the hallway .) W alt attended both
dedications. Sev enteen more universities of fered him honora ry degrees,
though W alt refused all but one—from the University of Califo rnia at Los
Angeles. The Museum of Modern Art contacted him about the possibility of
an exhibition: The W ork of W alt Disney .  And the actresses Lillian and
Dorothy Gish visited Oslo to campaign for W alt to receive the N obel Peace
Prize. His had become such a charmed life that even nature seem ed to favor
him; in Novemb er 1961, when f ires roared through Bel-Air and Brentwood