# Página 669  
R yman immedia tely objected. He was afraid he would embarrass himself
with so little time. “W alt paced back and forth,” R yman recalled. “Then he
went over into the corner and he turned his head around with his back to me
and said coaxingly , ‘W ill you do it if I stay here with you?’” R yman didn’ t
see how that would necessarily help, but W alt was so plaintive—“like a
little boy ,” he said in one interview , “with tears in his eyes,” he said in
another—that R yman reluctantly agreed. Plied with tuna sandwiches and
milkshakes and coached by W a lt, who provided detailed descriptions and
chain-smoked, R yman worked straight through Saturday and Sunday ,
sleepless, forty- two hours in all by one account, finishing a n overhead
rendering of the park just in tim e for it to be hand-colored by Davis and
Irvine and air -mailed to Roy in New Y ork.
As AB C chairman Leonard Goldenson remembered the ensuing
discussions, it was his  idea to trade a stake in the p ark for a one-hour
television series , and his  id ea to have Roy address the A BC board. If so, he
had been  premat ure. As it turned  out, the board, worried that ABC wouldn’ t
be able to secure financing itself for an investment in Disneyland, declined.
But Gol denson k new he needed the Disneys as much as the Disn eys needed
him. AB C was the newest of t he television networks and the weakest of
them. It  had only fourteen af fil iates where NBC had sixty-three and CBS
thirty , and its a dvertising rates were substantially lower than those of its
rivals. United Paramount Theaters, which had been set up as an independent
entity a fter being severed from Paramount by the government antitrust
action a gainst the major film st udios, had acquired ABC earlier that year
and had  pumpe d $30 million into the network. T o catch up to its rivals,
ABC wanted to use the mone y to build relationships with the motion
picture studios rather than pursue the much more time-consuming and
laborious process of developing its own programming. Philosophizing that
viewers wanted familiarity , ABC especially valued series and especially
series that might appeal to the growing demographic of what one ABC
executive called “youthful families.” Goldenson thought that the W alt
Disney company , with its appeal to those families, was the perfect match
for ABC.