# Página 111  
screening Alice’ s W onderland  in Hol lywood, that “every on e seemed to
think th at V ir ginia was real cute and thought she had wonderful
possibilities,” an d that if V ir gini a came out to star in the series, “it would be
a big opportunity for her and would introduce her to the profession in a
manner that few children could receive.” He pressed Mrs. Davi s to make a
decision as soon as possible since he was hoping to start production in
fifteen to  twenty days, and he ended rather grandiosely , not unlike W inkler
in he r le tter to him, saying that “it will be but a short time till the series will
be covering the world.”
In p oint of fact, Mrs. Davis had brought V ir ginia out earlier tha t summer
for a movie tryout but found th at so many other mothers were  attempting
the same thing that the studios refused to see them. She had returned to
Kansas City and was planning a nother assault on Hollywood in November
when she received W alt’ s message. Four days after his first  letter W alt
wrote again, this time of fering  terms: $100 a month for the first two
months, rising in $25 increments  every two months to $200 for m onths nine
through twelve,  with an option  of $250 a month for the next series. He
justified what he admitted was a “low salary at start” by poi nting to, as
W inkler had pointed out to him, the initial advertising and publicity costs.
Though W alt could not have known it, the Davises did not ne ed much
encouragement. V ir ginia’ s father was a traveling furniture salesman who
was on the road  most of the time. Her mother was a stagestruc k housewife
who had enrolled V ir ginia in dancing school when the girl was two and a
half years old, and she seemed determined to get her daughter into the
movies. In addition, V ir ginia suf fered from double pneumonia, and doctors
told the Davises  that the dry California climate would be benef icial for her
health. Mrs. Davis convinced he r husband that he could sell furniture from
California as easily as from the Midwest and that V ir ginia would have a
career , but even Roy was struck by a man giving up thirty years in Kansas
City for the p romise of only $100 a month. Mrs. Davis wired her
acceptance to W alt on October 28.
Now he had his contract and his star , but he had neither a company nor a
staf f nor , most important, any m oney to jump-start the operation. So when