# Página 298  
never felt better in my life. He can shoot those things in his own ass from
now on.”
He c ame back, he said, having learned some lessons about the world at
lar ge an d about his animations within it. Asked what he thought of political
tensions in Europe with the rise  of Adolf Hitler in Germany , W alt said that
he wasn’ t alarmed. “When a dispatch from Chicago says ‘150 stricken by
heat’ it sounds as if the whole Middle W est were burning,” he told a
reporter , “but when you find that one prostration was in Columbus, one in
Omaha, and so o n, and millions of people are going about their business as
usual, it doesn’ t seem so bad, th ough the reports are quite truthf ul.” For his
own business, W alt said he now believed that dialogue should be reduced to
a minimum. “I found that all over the world people want to laugh,” he told
columnist Loue lla Parsons upon his return, “but you cannot translate
American slang and American h umor into any other language, so I will try
to keep my comedy , so far as possible, in pantomime.”
He also returned to his obsession with Snow White.  He had decided that
rather th an divid e his attention e ach day between the feature and  the shorts,
which was obviously driving him to distraction, he would instead spend
alternate weeks on each. But before long he was violating his own rule.
Snow White  was the only thing that mattered. W riting to Roy that
December , W alt called the feature “our one chance for real recognition, and
with this thought in mind, I am going to concentrate on this feature, even at
the e xpense of th e shorts so I can have it out definitely one year from now .”
All that fall and winter he was meeting again with his write rs on Snow
White,  m eeting in long  sessions during the day , meeting sometimes at night
with an imators to solicit gags, meeting even on Saturday mornings for
hours w here he again performe d the scenes repeatedly (still co ncentrating
on Snow White cleaning up the cottage and then meeting the dwarfs) and
dictated the continuity . And all these months, while fighting of f a nasty cold
that he couldn’ t seem to shake, he was continually running the story
through his head, picking up on  the tiniest filigrees—“Snow White catches
squirrels sweepi ng stuf f under the rug—corrects them” or “Have some birds
up in the rafters  getting cobwebs around their tails”—and even  writing out
the dialogue in his own loopy s crawl on the back of the continuity , where