# Página 508  
Bureau o f Aeronautics sent an of ficer to Burbank to supervise the project.*
(The animators drew wings on the Animation Building, where th e navy was
now hea dquartered.) Meanwhile W alt had completed and shipp ed the films
for which Grierson had contracted promoting the purchase of Canadian war
bonds, and he was still dickering with Henry Sell on films for Lend Lease.
Y et the biggest measure of just  how dramatically things were about to
change at the studio came that very same week in early December , when
W alt received a call from John L. Sullivan, the assistant secretary of the
treasury . Even before the Pearl H arbor attack, the T reasury Department had
been considering producing film s that might encourage Americans to pay
their tax es, something that became suddenly more ur gent with the country
at w ar . Acting on a suggestio n of Undersecretary Geor ge Buf fington,
Sullivan had told T reasury sec retary Henry Mor genthau that “what John
Barrymore can’ t  do, maybe Mickey Mouse could,” and advised they meet
with W a lt Disne y . W alt had no desire to go to W ashington, especially since
it was Diane’ s birthday , but the T reasury Department insisted that the issue
was pres sing, so  W alt flew out on December 12, met with Mor genthau, had
dinner a t Sulliva n’ s house that e vening, where they roughed out a scenario
over ma rtinis, a nd then phoned Diane to wish her a happy b irthday . He
signed a letter of agreement the very next day , promising to produce the
film for not mo re than $40,000, which was less than the cost of a typical
Disney short.
It w asn’ t the bu dget, meager as it was, that presented a proble m—W alt
was getting accustomed to cutting corners when he had to. It was the
schedule. The T reasury Departm ent wanted the film on or before February
15, whic h ef fec tively gave the staf f a month to write and then polish the
scenario, compose the music, and animate. Ben Sharpsteen, who was
producing, and Hal Adelquist o f personnel told W alt that they would need
twenty m en for the film, which was now titled The New Spirit,  and that
given th e deadline, the entire sh ort would have to be animated  in a week.
Never , not even during the final days of Snow White  and Pinocchio  when
they were racing to make the p remieres, had the studio been u nder such a
crunch.