# Página 680  
to th at o f most television programs and much closer to that of films. (One
could ca ll it the first television miniseries.) Children, to whom the program
had lar g ely been tar geted, had never had anything on television so grand.
The three installments had, in fa ct, cost nearly $750,000, and th ough MGM
had loaned some old stock footage of Indians from Northwest Passage,
W alt didn’ t stint.* When he had visited the location the previous September ,
and Foster had braced to be fired for falling behind schedule, W alt instead
approached him  and told him to reshoot a scene in which Crock ett wrestled
a bear because, W alt said, he could see a zipper on the bear costume.
W alt Di sney had clearly struck a national nerve, even if accidentally , in
reviving the idea of a plainspok en, fearless, idealistic, compassionate, but
intrepid hero, at a time when Americans were harking back to values that
they believed distinguished them from the conformity and coldbloodedness
of their global antagonist, the Soviet Union, and that would demonstrate
their superiority to Communism, Crockett’ s death at the Alamo
notwithstanding. “Davy’ s T ime,” T ime  cal led it, seein g Crockett as an
expression of growing national confidence, and boasting, “Th e people of
the U .S. had ne ver been so prosperous. Never before had the b readwinner
taken home so much money…. Not since the first delirious mistaken weeks
after V .J. day ha d there been so much expectancy—with caution  this time—
for peace.” And one T ime  correspondent, reflecting on the meaning of
Crockett’ s popul arity for Americans, opined, “Davy Crockett is the epitome
of a man who c an lick any prob lem with his wits and his own two hands.”
Fess Parker himself thought it may have been a matter of what he called
“hero-hunger ,” and at least one analyst would observe that the phenomenon
may hav e had less to do with self-confidence than with self-dou bt after the
recent trauma of Senator Joseph McCarthy’ s red-baiting, and that Crockett
was a palliative.  Whether Crockett was symbolizing optimism or trying to
reestablish it, W alt was engaged, as he had been since the war ’ s end, in a
national reclamation, and the country responded, presumably because it
liked the image that W alt was fo stering for it. As historian Steven W atts put
it, “W alt  Disney , with his instin ctive feel for cultural pressure points, half-
consciously shaped an ideal, reassuring representative of the American way
as it faced a daunting challenge from without.”