# Página 53  
Then Elias Disney escaped aga in. For several years he had been investing
his money—and  W alt’ s earnings too—in a jelly and fruit juice company in
Chicago named O-Zell. In Marc h he sold the paper route—by one account
he m ade $16,000 on the sale—a nd bought additional shares of O-Zell with
the intention of moving back to Chicago to head up construction and
maintenance at the company’ s factory , obviously feeling that this time he
might fi nally fin d the success th at had so long evaded him. At fifty-seven
this was almost certainly the last opportunity he would have to rival his
brother . When Elias and Flora left, W alt stayed behind to assist the man
who had  bough t the route, and  lived with his brother Herbe rt, who had
moved i nto the Bellefontaine house with his wife and year -old daughter .
Once the transfer had been completed, W alt, at either Roy’ s or Herbert’ s
suggestion, sign ed up with the V an Noyes Interstate News Co mpany and
spent the  rest of the summer as a “butcher” selling papers, cand y , soda, and
tobacco to passengers on the Santa Fe train route between Kansas City and
Spiro, O klahoma. Roy , who provided the fifteen-dollar bond for his brother
and who had b een a butcher h imself one summer , thought it would be
“educational” for him.
As it turned out , it was. Thoug h W alt just liked the idea of being on a
train—sometimes he would bribe the engineer with a plug of tobacco so
that he could ride in the coal car; other times he would sit in the yard staring
at the engines an d dreaming of firing them up—he got to see C olorado and
Oklahoma and,  filling in for other butchers, ventured as far east as
Mississippi. He was especially struck by the Pullman sleeper ca rs and years
later , ac cording to one screenwriter who worked for him, would reminisce
about th e “elegance of this plus h and velvet world he glimpsed  for the first
time.” He got a brief education in the rough-and-tumble busines s world too.
One time a grou p of soldiers to whom he had sold soda refused  to give him
back the bottles on which he ma de his profit. (W alt had to get the conductor
to fo rce them to  pay .) Another ti me W alt was replenishing his ba sket during
a sto p at Lee’ s Summit, Missou ri, only to return and find that t he cars had
been detached from the engine at the station and his bottles had gone with