# Página 555  
to begin another round of layof fs, he had come to a terrible, almost
crippling realization, one that seemed to sear him: even if he were to move
ahead with his f eatures, they would never be as good as the films he had
made be fore the  war—never as beautifully animated, never as deliberately
plotted, never as painstakingly fussed over , never as fully the p roduct of a
near -religious co mmitment to greatness. The studio simply did not have the
financial resources, the time, the talent, or perhaps most important of all,
the sense of spiritual mission that it had previously had. The cult was over .
It was even ques tionable whether the new , leaner , less realistic aesthetic lent
itself to the sort of full-bodied d ramatic greatness of the early fe atures. And
if th e fil ms coul d never be as good as they had been, was there really any
point in making them—other tha n to keep the studio intact and r unning, just
as W alt had be en compelled to do during the war? He unde rstood that
where h e had been an unpretentious artist before the war , then a salesman
and goodwill ambassador during  it, he was becoming an employer after it,
which w as why he began to talk  now about selling the studio or leaving it.
“W e’re through with caviar ,” he reluctantly conceded. “From now on it’ s
mashed potatoes and gravy .”
It w as bleak. Nineteen hundr ed and forty-six may have been the
unhappiest of a skein of unhappy years at the studio, especially because the
motion picture industry , thank s to returning troops and peacetime, was
enjoying its best year ever . “W alt was a bear in those worriso me times,”
animator and storyman Bill Pee t would write, “always in a growling mood
and hard to dea l with.” And w hen he wasn’ t growling, he w as sighing
—“prodigious” sighs, according to one employee. He was so un certain that
he i ncreasingly surrendered hi s own judgment to the judgm ent of the
Audience Research Institute (ARI), which now conducted audience surveys
not o nly of com pleted movies or their rough animations, as W alt had done
under his own a uspices to test h is own instincts in the mid-1930s, but of the
story sessions themselves, so  that even before a film proceeded to
animation, it had to score with two focus groups—one made up of people
recruited of f the streets, the other of the creative personnel at the studio.
(W alt made it a point never to preview with children because he always
insisted that his films were not m ade for children.) W alt attended nearly all
of these sessions, mostly held in  the projection room down the hall from his