# Página 395  
then W a lt would calculate how many rainy days there were likely to be and
begin b rainstorming about digging under ground tunnels between the
animation building and the ink and paint building. “He really  thought it
through and involved us in it all the way .”
As always, he became obsessive. One employee remembered coming
into W alt’ s of fice and finding h im disassembling a chair to det ermine how
he could  manufacture one that was more comfortable for the animators.
Another recalled  W alt entrusting Frank Thomas to design a prototype for a
new animation table, which W eber then had fabricated. The new desks
would have rotating disks, fluor escent lights, and lar ger animation paper—
30 percent lar ger to make it easier to draw . On the Animation Building there
would be slotted awnings design ed specifically to let in light without letting
in g lare. Instead of cramped sweatboxes there would be two spacious
projection room s, one of them next to W alt’ s of fice. (The name “sweatbox,”
however , was still retained, as  it had been for the projection rooms at
Hyperion.) And after the stifling  heat of the in-betweeners’ bullpen and the
animation rooms at Hyperion, there would be humidity controls,
temperature regulation, and an air -conditioner pumping 250,000 cubic feet
of cool air . W alt was overlooking nothing for his dream world.
II
By the fall of 1938, when W alt was planning the new studio, the desultory ,
blissful post– Snow White  respite had ended, and he was back at Hyperion
piloting Snow White ’ s follow-up, Bambi.  He had been working on the
project in fits and starts since early 1935, when he met with producer -
director Sidney Franklin, who h eld the rights and was eager to get the film
into production. Preoccupied with Snow White,  W alt had kept stalling and
Franklin had kept pressing, even notifying the Disneys that he was
considering an of fer for the m aterial from MGM, the studio to which
Franklin was under contract, though Roy thought he was bluf fing just to get
the project moving. By the sprin g of 1937 it had gotten moving, and Bianca
Majolie, who had been a classmate of W alt’ s at McKinley High School in
Chicago before petitioning him for a job and landing one i n the story