# Página 333  
tasks to complete if the feature was to be ready for its scheduled premiere in
December 1937 . For one thing,  the animators drew to the voice track, so
before t hey could animate any of the scenes in which characters spoke,
voices h ad to be cast and the d ialogue recorded. Early in 1936, several of
the dwarfs had been cast with the actors who had inspired them—Atwell for
Doc and  Harlan for Happy—though storyman Pinto Colvig, who had done
a live reel of Grumpy for T ytla, did two voices, Grumpy and Sleepy , veteran
movie comedian  Billy Gilbert who had a trademark sneeze voi ced Sneezy ,
and longtime movie bit player Scotty Mattraw performed Bashful.
The stud io auditioned dozens of actresses for the Queen, most of whom,
according to Bill Cottrell, had be en fatally af fected by a cackling witch on a
popular radio program. When Lucille La V erne, who had played La
V engeance in David Selznick’ s A T ale of T wo Cities,  auditioned, Cottrell
of fered h er the storyboards to peruse, but she declined. “She read the lines,”
Cottrell recalled . “Y ou could ha ve recorded it and used the first reading she
gave, she was so good. And when she came to the transit ion [to the
peddler], she concluded with a blood-chilling, maniacal laugh that rang all
through the sound stage.” (According to Joe Grant, La V erne assumed the
peddler woman’ s voice by removing her false teeth.) She was hired
immediately .
As f or S now White, by one account 150 girls were tested for  the part,
allegedly amon g them Deanna Durbin, who would later become an
acclaimed child star at Universal but whom W alt rejected because he
thought she sounded like a thirty -year -old woman. V ir ginia Davis, who had
played Alice in the Alice comedies a decade earlier , said that she had done
some preliminar y live action for the character and was set to d o the voice
when sh e rejected the contract as unacceptable. The successful aspirant,
eighteen-year -old Adriana Caselotti, would always tell the story  of how her
father , a voice t eacher , was talking on the phone to a talent scout at the
Disney studio when she overheard the conversation on the extension and
recommended h erself for the jo b. As W alt told it, his talent s cout would
bring ca ndidates to the studio a nd have W alt paged when the man thought
he had a possibility . W alt wo uld then head to his of fice next to the
soundstage and listen in on a speaker so that the candidate’ s  appearance