# Página 97  
pictures.” These were the skewed fairy tales—a Puss in Boots  whe re a  cat
convinces a young suitor that he can win a princess’ s hand by emulating
“Rudolf V aselino,” a send-up of silent-film heartthrob Rudolph V alentino,
and winning a bullfight; or Red Riding Hood,  where Red is chased by a
young man in a flivver while her granny is of f at the movies.
Though the financial situation was never less than dire almost from the
company’ s ince ption, W alt maintained his peculiar confidence and
persistence. “He  had the drive and ambition of ten million men,” claimed a
secretary who was dating a photographer across the hall and did some of
W alt’ s c lerical work at the time. It was an indication of both his desperation
and his ingenuity that by the end of October he had taken out yet another
newspaper ad, this one declaring that Laugh-O-Gram had added the
“feature of photographing youngsters to its regular business of making
animated cartoons” and of fering  customers a projection service to show the
films. In  ef fect, W alt was angling to shoot baby pictures to kee p Laugh-O-
Gram afloat.
As the company continued to sink, there was more scrambling. A month
later , probably through the intercession of Dr . Cowles, W alt was approached
by a dentist named Thomas B. McCrum of the Deaner Dental Institute in
Kansas City . McCrum would re ceive grants of $500 from loca l merchants
to finan ce educational films on dental hygiene, and he asked if Laugh-O-
Gram might be interested in producing one, T ommy T ucker ’ s T ooth,  about
two boys—Jimm ie Jones, who d id not take proper care of his teeth and was
thus den ied a job, and T ommy T ucker , who did exercise dental hygiene and
won the job. W a lt quickly agreed, but when McCrum asked W al t to come to
the insti tute to finalize the deal, W alt had to demur . He had left h is only pair
of shoes at the shoemaker ’ s and did not have the $1.50 he needed to retrieve
them. McCrum, who lived just down the street from W alt, of fered to pay the
shoemaker and then pick W alt up to close the deal.
W alt rec ruited the cast from lo cal schools, including Benton, and shot
during school hours once or twice weekly that December .  (The film
included a brief animated sectio n showing bacteria with pickaxes hacking
away at teeth.) “W alt Disney at each filming knew exactly what he wanted