# Página 295  
The nex t week, in a sign of how  furiously W alt was mobilizing the studio
and draf ting eve ryone into the p roject, he held a three-hour me eting on the
soundstage to hash out more plot details and assign charac ters to the
animators so that they could e xperiment with their own interpretations.
(Among other things, W alt had y et to decide whether the Queen should be a
“fat, cartoon type” with a comic  element or a “high collar—stately beautiful
type.”) A t the same time that th e story department was writing scenes and
dialogue, W alt char ged the music department with composing songs for the
film and circulated yet another outline, this one by story depa rtment head
T ed Sears, to ins pire gags from everyone in the studio. “T ry to give at least
one goo d gag on each individual section of the whole sequence,” he ur ged
on the introduct ion scene. “There are good gag possibilities throughout the
sequence.” He made similar req uests every few days after each scene was
submitted. In return he received boxes full of suggestions for gags, another
sign of just how enthusiastic the employees were about the new project.
Though W alt had been edging aw ay from gags for years in favor of lar ger
narrative blocks that would elicit more complex response s from the
audience, he was resorting to them for the feature as a form of security .
Gags were what the studio k new best. “At the start [of Snow White ]
everything was gags, gags, gags,” recalled animator Frank Thomas. But
through the fall and winter of 1934, as the script was being developed, W alt,
in Thomas’ s words, “was seeing something new and more things that he
could do with animation, and the layout men would give him new drawings,
and everybody was coming up  with new ideas and so W alt was going,
‘What h ave I got here?’ He w as like an or ganist playing all the stops.”
Essentially , W alt’ s vision was expanding as he conceptualized the film.
Throughout the  winter he continued to meet endlessly with the story
crew , not only during the day but occasionally at night as well, reviewing
and revi sing eac h line, each gag , each story point in the introduction scene,
not once or twice but a dozen times in session after session, before
reluctantly moving on to the scenes in which the Queen questions her
Magic Mirror over who is the f airest in the land, the Queen induces Snow
White to eat the apple, and the Queen dispatches her huntsman into the
woods with Snow White with the intention of killing her . Bu t for all the