# Página 135  
marriage and honeymoon that January , it was becoming increasingly
dif ficult to meet the timetable. Though W alt kept pressuring the staf f to
improve the animations and though the Alice films did show greater visual
sophistication, even W alt realize d that the series was losing steam. “I have
felt we have so rt of been in a rut in regard to the stule [ sic ] and general
construction of our plots and gags,” he wrote Mintz in February 1927. “I
tried eve ry way possible to find out just what was lacking and no w I believe
I ha ve found ‘IT .’” Though W alt didn’ t say what “it” was, he asked Mintz
to take special notice of the new films and tell W alt what he thought. Still, it
was a measure of how thin the novelty was wearing that the  live action
continued to shrink, even as M intz, for economy’ s sake, was now ur ging
W alt to increase the cheaper , live-action sections after years of insisting that
he shorten them. By early 1927 Geor ge W inkler had replaced Mar gie Gay
with yet another girl, Lois Hardwick, who W alt enthused was “full of life
and expression”  and the “best yet.” Mintz, before reluctantly gi ving the go-
ahead to use her , snif fed that “her legs seemed kind of heavy .”
They ne eded to do something. A t the time Mintz, apparently concluding
himself that the Alices were in their death throes, was already conducting
negotiations wit h Universal to provide a new cartoon character for another
series, and he had asked W alt to provide drawings. “[T]hey seem to think
there are too many cats on the m arket,” Mintz instructed. “As long as they
are doing the buying, naturally , we must try to sell them what they want.”
W alt sen t him sketches of rabbit characters. Six weeks later , on March 4,
1927, Mintz signed an agreemen t with Universal, which was re entering the
animation field  after a ten-ye ar absence, to provide twenty-six shorts
featuring Oswal d the Lucky Rabbit. Mintz headed to California that same
week, pr esumably to meet with W alt, though Motion Pictur e W orld  reported
ominously that Geor ge W inkl er was also heading out to “establish a
specially constructed studio for the purpose of turning out these Oswald
comedies.” W alt finished the last of his fifty-six Alices that month.
Now suddenly there was an en tirely new challenge—not only  the new
character but the need to produce the films quickly to prove W alt’ s
ef ficiency to Universal. W ith Mintz ur ging him to “shoot the first picture as
soon as possible,” W alt immedia tely , even before Geor ge W inkler ’ s arrival,