# Página 265  
Mickey was no less popular or lauded overseas. Fortune  n oted that he
was an “internat ional hero, better known than Roosevelt or Hitl er , a part of
the folklore of the world.” By one account Queen Mary of England once
arrived late for a tea rather than miss the end of a charity s creening of
Mickey’ s Nightmar e.  Orchestra conductor Arturo T oscanini saw The Band
Concert,  in  which Mick ey leads a band with disastrous results, six tim es
and was so smitten by it that he extended an invitation to W alt to visit him
in Italy . When a program of Di sney cartoons featuring Mickey  as well as
the S ymphonies  was shown in Moscow , The New  Y ork T imes  reported that
“[n]ot since the days of the fo od shortage have the streets of Moscow
witnessed such queues as those  waiting to buy tickets for the American
movies.” Russian director Ser gei Eisenstein requested permission to publish
several of the scenarios in a book.
By this time Mic key’ s bur geonin g cottage industries had begun to eclipse
his s creen success. Late in 193 0 the Disneys had renewed th eir contract
with Ge or ge Bor gfeldt to license Mickey Mouse products, though they
decided to restrict his representa tion to toys. At the same time a  seamstress
named Charlotte Clark had sewn a Mickey Mouse doll, which Roy raced to
have rea dy for Christmas. Eve n though the company’ s strained financial
situation limited the production and even though each was hand-made, the
studio sold more than twenty-fi ve gross in just five weeks. W ithin months
Roy , who had been lobbying publishers for a Mickey Mouse book just a
year earlier , was now besieged b y of fers and, taking a page from W alt, was
insisting on a “real high-class b ook.” That spring, with Bor gfeldt boasting
to Roy that “we are building up a big Mickey Mouse business with many of
the leading distributors,” the studio opened a New Y ork of fice to handle the
merchandise that Bor gfeldt did not represent.
But W alt and Roy , who were trying to raise money for the color
conversion at the time, were impatient and dissatisfied. Roy s aid that the
Bor gfeldt royalt y statement for 1930 arrived in “longhand like some bunch
of farmers” and that the return amounted to only $63, while the Charlotte
Clark dolls alone, which Roy handled himself, netted the studio $350.
“They a re great  hands to do lots of talking,” he groused about Bor gfeldt.
Moreover , the quality control was terrible—Disney products were often