# Página 39  
launched a $40 million boulevard system that created wide, tree-lined
streets, had begun construction on a new downtown train dep ot, and had
nearly doubled capital investment and the value of manufactured products
in le ss than a decade. In the f irst two decades of the centur y the city’ s
population doub led as well—from 163,000 to 324,000. Y et  for all its
expansiveness a nd the sense th at it was in the process of re making and
renewing itself, it was a city n onetheless. “The city was not pretty ,” one
observer noted, “but it was lively in the lusty W estern tradition.”
If Kansas City was a comedown from Marceline, the house there was a
comedown too. Located at 2706  East Thirty-first Street in a working-class
section, it was s o small that when relatives visited, Roy and W alt had to
move to what they called the “barn,” a shed out back, and it was so close to
the road that the family had to draw the curtains so no one  could look
inside. Compare d to the Marceline farmhouse with its sprawling pastures,
the T hirty-first Street house had  only a tiny vegetable patch, and it had no
indoor p lumbing. For the children its sole grace, Ruth remembe red, was its
proximity to the Fairmount am usement park, which was “a fa iryland that
you cou ldn’ t get into.” Debarred, she and W alt would stand outside its
gates, staring raptly at the all-white structures.
And if the city and the house were comedowns, Elias’ s job was even
more de meaning. He listed himself in the Kansas City dir ectory as a
“clerk.” In truth, he had sold the Marceline farm for $5,175 to a local family
and purc hased a  paper route in Kansas City at three dollars per customer ,
roughly 650 of them, but whether he was ashamed of delivering papers or
there was some business advant age in doing so, he listed eighteen-year -old
Roy as the owner of record. The route, in a twenty-square-block area
bordering the Disneys’ own neighborhood, was reasonably lucrative by the
standards of paper delivery . The  section, called Santa Fe, was af fluent and
the Kansas City Star  itse lf so popula r that, as W alt later said, “the route
book wo uld list the people who DIDN’T take the paper”—those  being rabid
Democrats who  resented the paper ’ s pro-Republican editori al position.
Customers paid forty-five cents a week for thirteen editions of the morning
T imes  and evening Star ,  of which Elias kept twenty-one cents—about thirty-