# Página 306  
system. In ef fect, W alt was sending these men to a kind of artistic boot
camp.
It was intensive , but then W alt wanted Snow White  to be perfect. The
trainees spent all morning and then, after a lunch break, the rest of the
afternoon in life classes taught by Don Graham—eight hours each day in
all. A fter several weeks they we re assigned to animators as in-betweeners at
eighteen dollars per week. Even then, however , they would be  excused to
attend cl asses for a third or half a day , and beginning in February  1935, they
were expected to attend an eve ning class every W ednesday night on the
studio soundstage. Graham desc ribed his course as “[i]ntensive lectures on
character const ruction, animat ion, layout, background, mec hanics and
direction [that] extended studio knowledge to the youngest neophyte.”
But it wasn’ t only the trainees who were now attending classes. By the
fall, with the Snow White  script being fine-tuned and the film nearing the
animation stage, W alt reinstitute d mandatory classes for the entire studio art
staf f on T uesday nights after having suspended them in the face of the
heavy workload. Sessions alternated between action analysis and screenings
of re cent live-action films that, W alt announced, were “tied up in some way
with the current stuf f we are w orking on…with the thought in mind to
prepare ourselves now for the future,” meaning Snow White.  In addition,
Frank T homas and Ollie Johnston said, animators attended classes two or
three tim es a week, where Graham would analyze small piec es of film,
running them forward and backward repeatedly; his lectures were recorded,
transcribed, mimeographed, and then distributed throughout the studio.
When he wasn’ t analyzing live action, Graham was analyzing the
movements of Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck, not only to improve the
animation of these characters b ut also to sharpen the animator s’ skills for
Snow White.  “Pu t in simple terms,” Graham said, “it amounted to this: a
drawing princip le is a drawing principle. If it works in a Rubens, it must
work in  Donald Duck. If it works in the Duck it must work in SNOW
WHITE. ”
As t hey edged closer to beginn ing the animation for Snow White —and
given W alt’ s reluctance to begi n without being fully prepared, they were