# Página 393  
Now , with virtually no deliberation, he decided that he was going to build
an entirely new studio instead and promptly asked Geor ge M orris in the
business of fice to lay out a financing scheme. When Morris protested that
he n eeded to kno w what the cost of the new studio would be, W alt, with his
customary disdain for money , shrugged. “W ell, go ahead and figure on
$500,000 and we will talk about the rest of it later .”
In short order W alt whipped himself into a frenzy over the new studio.
Even with Roy in Europe, h e began scouting properties, and Morris
helplessly memoed the absent brother: “It looks as though we’re going
ahead w ith the new studio.” Indeed, W alt was now so enthusiastic about the
prospect and so eager to proceed that Gunther Lessing also contacted Roy
and ur ge d him to return before  matters got out of hand. Though the Los
Angeles T imes  rep orted in Ju ne that W alt was considering sites in the
W estwood section of Los Angeles and in the barren suburb of Burbank,
north of  Los Angeles, within three weeks of his decision to buil d the studio
he had already settled on an isolated fifty-one-acre tract in the latter
community , which had served as the polo field for the Black Fox Military
Academy , and he had begun negotiations with the Department of W ater and
Power , which owned the property . The asking price was $100,000.
“Y ou know how I got this studio , don’ t you?” W alt once asked a meeting
of h is employees. “They thought they would be very happy if Snow White
grossed three million, so when it went over that I said: Let me have this—I
want to build a new studio…and that is how we got the new studio.” In fact
it wa sn’ t quite so simple. The lion’ s share of Snow White ’ s pr ofits had go ne
to retire the debt, so W alt dispatched Morris and Garity to consult Joe
Rosenber g at the Bank of Amer ica about a loan. Rosenber g was amenable,
but a fter sending out an apprais er to look at the Burbank site, h e thought it
overpriced, said  he would advance the Disneys only $30,000, and advised
that W alt look at other properties. Undeterred, W alt quickly closed the deal
with the  Department of W ater and Power and that July announced that
construction would begin within weeks. As always, Roy would get him the
money .