# Página 451  
the “gre at brain s” at the studio  warned him that W alt would be incensed
when he  finally saw it. They we re wrong. According to Kimball, “The first
night we  ran that at the Studio,  it killed everybody . It was a milestone….
Y ou can’ t imagine the contrast it had to what we were doing when it came
out.” In  fact, Kimball remembered, “W alt thought it was grea t and made
other people go in and look at it.”  
The ur ge ncy of The Reluctant Dragon  that summer of 1940 was reinforced
by the continued  foot-dragging on Bambi,  th ough W alt and the staf f were
meeting throughout June and had at long last finalized the continuity . “All
remaining seque nces of BAMBI  a re now in active story shaping,” Perce
Pearce reported to W alt early in the month, “including the final sequence of
the picture.” The last narrative sticking points had been the issue of the
portrayal of Man and the staging of the death of Bambi’ s mother at the
hands of  hunters . W alt felt they had to play up the threat of Man, “the dread
of Man that they have,” and play down the natural hardships th ey faced. It
was Man  who was the real enem y . He was also keenly aware of the impact
that Bambi’ s mother ’ s death would have on the audience and kept returning
to it at the stor y meetings. Do you see her getting hit? Does  she get hit
while she is protecting Bambi? Does Bambi see her fallen body? W alt
finally decided that she would be shot while leaping a log but that the
audience would  not see her getting hit and would not see her body
afterward. It was, he decided, m ore than an audience could bear—“sticking
a kn ife i n their hearts,” he said. Instead he opted for understate ment. “He’ s
hunting for his mother , and he never finds her ,” W alt described the scene at
one session, “and the Stag just t ells him…. He just sort of wanders around.
The last  you see of them is jus t some faint silhouette forms b ack of this
blizzard and pretty soon they have disappeared and there is nothing but
snow falling.” Y et again, in amplifying upon what his storyme n had done,
he provided one of the most famous and powerful scenes in th e history of
motion pictures.