# Página 516  
that sho wed how the latter had overwhelmed rationality in Naz i Germany .
Still later he pu t into production a short called Donald in Nutzi Land  that
used Do nald Duck to ridicule German leader Adolf Hitler . Both  films were
apparently made with financing from Reader ’ s Digest  and  the Coordinator ’ s
Of fice. W alt commissioned stud io composer Oliver W allace to write a song
for the latter , which W allace said he banged out in an hour , incorporating a
“razz” at Hitler in the chorus. W hen Spike Jones (then a trombonist in John
Scott T r otter ’ s o rchestra and the leader of his own comical band called the
City Slic kers) selected the song, “Der Fuehrer ’ s Face,” complete with the
razz, as the B-side of a new rec ord, it became an instant hit, prompting the
studio to change the film’ s title to the song’ s title. Jones’ s version sold 1.5
million c opies and provided an anthem for the war just as “Who ’ s Afraid of
the Big Bad W o lf?” had provided an anthem for the Depression. Finally ,
again at the ur ging of the coordinator , W alt prepared a Nazi-them ed version
of Chicken Little  in  which Foxey  Loxey gains access to the chicken coop by
deploying Nazi tactics.
But thes e were small propagandistic forays, buttressing the popular mood
by attac king Nazism and the Nazi leader . They didn’ t change public
opinion; they reinforced it. No w W alt aimed higher . If he was going to
make propaganda, he wanted to lead a crusade, not follow one. He wanted
to help change t he course of the war , and, perhaps more important after the
hiatus on the fe atures, he wanted to make a film that actually mattered to
him. Still angling to make a com pact with the Disneys, Reader ’ s Digest  had
excerpted and then sent W alt the galleys of a new book by a former Russian
air commander with the imperious name of Major Alexander P . de
Seversky , who had lost his right  leg at the age of twenty-two in  an airplane
crash du ring W orld W ar I but was so good a pilot that he h ad received
special d ispensation to return to his post and then shot down th irteen more
planes before coming to the United States as an assistant naval attaché to
the Russ ian emb assy and, after the Russian Revolution, a consultant to the
U.S. Air  Service . In America, w here he became a citizen, he developed the
first auto mated b ombsight and the first turbo-char ged, air -coole d engine for
fighter planes.