# Página 486  
of th e st rikers w ere already arranged around the room, and as W alt passed
them, he commented, “Damn, I  didn’ t think he’d  go agai nst me, ” or “W e
can get along without him.” As Jack Kinney recalled, “W e got the uneasy
feeling t hat he was filing his fe elings away in his prodigious memory for
some fu ture revenge.” Meanwhile Lessing appeared and s aid that he
thought the strike would last only twenty-four hours. W alt broke out a bottle
of Harvey’ s Bristol Cream for a toast.
Exactly how many people were striking depended on which side was
doing the counting. Babbitt clai med that of the 500 employees in positions
over which the g uild had jurisdiction, 472 signed with the union and 410 of
those ha d gone on strike. James Bodero, who headed the rival American
Society of Screen Cartoonists , said that 735 workers fell under guild
jurisdiction and 435 of those were still working. Lessing told The New Y ork
T imes  th at only 293 employees were  on strike. The guild itself estimated
that 700  employees were on strike. Most of them were the lower -paid
workers—in-betweeners, assistants, inkers. Only two of the supervising
animators—Babbitt and his clos e friend Bill T ytla—struck. The others, said
one animator , were “indoctrinat ed by Disney…They grew up there.” W alt,
insisting that the unrest was no fault of his own, branded the strikers
“malcontents”—“the unsatisfactory ones who knew that their days were
numbered and who had everything to gain by a strike.”
W riting W alt shortly after th e strike began, a former e mployee,
commiserating with his old boss, wistfully recalled the “good old days
when we had a big happy family all packed into a small buildin g…In those
days eve ry man in the or ganizat ion had the good old ‘do or die  for Disney’
spirit.” T hen, w hen the company grew , he said, a “feeling of working for
personal gain started creeping in . The present condition seemed inevitable.”
Success necessarily destroyed comity . But W alt, for whom the shattered
peace no w mean t shattered dreams, did not think it had been in evitable. As
he analyzed it, his utopia had been despoiled not by the ineluctable forces
of co rporatism but by a few rott en apples manipulated by a few  determined
ideologues. He may not have b elieved, as did Leon Schlesinger at W arner
Bros., that his employees love d him, but he did believe that they were
dedicated to the greater good of animation and to the artistic co mmunity he