# Página 441  
Pinocchio  wou ld h ave to be cut by a million dollars, which meant, amon g
other things, that W alt’ s proposed bonuses would have to be eliminated.
Morris now predicted a “sever e loss” on the film. Something had gone
wrong. Ben Sharpsteen attributed the disappointing audience reception to
the fact that Pinocchio  app ealed only t o children, whereas Snow White  had
greater adult appeal. “[T]he expression was at the Music Hall that the
matinees were terrific at reduced children’ s price,” Sharpste en told an
interviewer year s later . “But, m y God, you could shoot a cannon up the
aisle at night!” O thers would feel just the opposite: that Pinocchio  was too
dark and disturbing a film for children and presented, as one Disney scholar
would p ut it, the “bleakest vision of any Disney feature.” Indeed, far more
than Snow White, Pinocchio  soberly limned the central Disney theme of the
responsibilities of maturity and what one had to sacrifice to grow up, so that
where Snow White  pro vided relief for a Depression -weary world, Pinocchio
seemed to serve as a reminder o f the travails of the Depression and the war
in Europ e. W alt himself, though bristling at any suggestion that Pinocchio
had not done w ell, had a simpler explanation. He blamed the competition
from Gone wi th the W ind,  the movie blockbuster that had been released just
a few weeks ea rlier , and the war itself, which significantly cut profits.
Because of the war , the film was translated into only two languages,
Spanish and Portuguese, and r eceived only 45 percent of its gross from
outside t he United States and Canada, significantly less than Snow White.  In
England alone, where Snow White  had  grossed $ 2 million, Pinocchio
grossed only $200,000. When a ll was said and done, it took in roughly $2
million, out of w hich the studio received $1.2 million on a total  investment
of $2.7 million. Even so, many would regard Pinocchio  a s W alt Disney’ s
masterpiece, the pinnacle of animation art. W alt reluctantly disagreed.
“Pinocchio lacked an intangible something,” he finally confessed to a
reporter .  
Now , wi th the fresh defeat of Pinocchio  having temporarily dashed W alt’ s
confidence, it was back to Bambi,  which he had been dragging like a
millstone for over two years. The Bambi  st ory crew had been among th e