# Página 17  
at the same time that he was commercializing his own country , he was
regarded by his detractors as perhaps the primary example of America’ s
cultural imperialism, supplanting the myths of native cultures with his own
myths just as he had supplanted the imaginations of his audience.
All of this antagonism was aime d at Disney in his role as studio head, but
in his later years, and especially  after his death, his personal image, at least
among intellectuals, underwent a similar if somewhat more gradual
transformation from beloved naïf to avaricious corporate kingpin and
general villain. Much of this change was politically inspired. Ever since a
cartoonists’ strik e in 1941 that wracked the studio and shattered its owner ’ s
utopianism, Dis ney had grown increasingly conservative, aligning himself
with red-baiting anti-Communists and with the most reactionary elements
of the Republic an Party , thus putting himself in the political crosshairs.
Whispered accusations of anti-Semitism and racism clearly eroded his
image. But much of the criticism was also culturally inspired. His long
identification with small-town, conformist America, which had been one
source o f his popularity , became  a liability in the 1960s, when th at America
was itse lf increasingly under attack from intellectuals and political activists
and was  itself increasingly identified not with America’ s sinewy strength
but with her pr ejudices. Disney became a symbol of an Am erica facing
backward—politically , culturally , and artistically .
One of the m ost important flash points in both crystallizing and
advancing this revisionist view was Richard Schickel’ s 1968 critical study ,
The Disney V ersion,  w hich portrayed Disney as mercenary and mendacious,
his entir e life “an illusion creat ed by a vast machinery ,” so much so that
even his own signature, use d as the company’ s logo, had to be
manufactured fo r him. (In truth, Disney’ s personal signature was far more
flamboyantly lo opy than the m odified corporate version.) “Di sney was a
callous man, oblivious to pattern s inherent in nature, art, literatu re,” a critic
wrote in an app roving review of Schickel’ s book, delivering what rapidly
became the standard intellectual verdict on Hollywood’ s chief fantasist. “He
had a magic touch, but it turned things into gold, not art.  He lacked
perception and sensitivity for genuine artistic creativity , and his compulsion
to control made him no respect er of the integrity of the works of others.”