# Página 208  
satisfied than usual. He became distracted and for getful. Even his health
began to deteriorate, and lat e that June, just two week s after the
miscarriage, he  was rushed to the hospital to have inflam ed tonsils
removed. “Frankly , I am worried about W alt,” Roy wrote Lessing and
Morris. “He needs a good vacat ion and rest. W e have both been hitting the
ball too hard fo r a long time.” He also endorsed the idea of b ringing in a
new inv estor an d business associate, apparently Schenck, to relieve them.
“Of cou rse, in no event, would we relinquish control, but there  would be a
devided [ sic ] responsibility in place of it being on just us two. If for no
other reason than to protect W alt’ s health, strength and enthusiasm, and
talent, I am strongly in favor of the idea.”
Though W alt would have never agreed to share responsibility , he realized
that his enthusiasm was wanin g even as his intensity increase d, and that
something was terribly wrong w ith him. “I guess I was working too hard
and wor rying to o much,” he s aid later . “I was expecting mo re from my
artists than they were giving me, and all I did all day long was pound,
pound, pound. Costs were going up; each new picture we finished cost
more to make than we had figured it would earn.” While he dro ve his staf f
mercilessly and became snappish again, as he had been in the  bad Mintz
days, he  was emotionally fragil e. When he talked on the phone, he would
suddenly and unaccountably find himself weeping. At night he couldn’ t
sleep. A t the studio he became physically ill looking at his la test cartoon
and, una ble to see anything but its flaws, claimed that he was si ck of it—so
sick of it that he  never wanted to see it again. He became so con cerned with
his cond ition that he finally visit ed a doctor , who told him that he had to get
away , ironically from the place that had provided refuge. As W alt himself
described it, “I was in an emotional flap.”
But it was more than an emotional flap. The years of fighting and losing
and then having to fight back, th e years of having to maintain a brave front
like Mic key Mouse in the face of loss and betrayal, and the yea rs of feeling
compelled to produce cartoon s so good that the Disneys  would be
unassailable in the industry , while struggling against oppressive,
unrelenting financial constraints that barely allowed them to survive and
that eve n now had not loosened, and then the setback in starti ng his own