# Página 788  
her agen t wante d $750,000. T wo months later , at a meeting with W alt in
London, T ravers  herself upped t he ante. She was now demandin g 5 percent
of the profits, which would have amounted to considerably more than
$750,000,  with  a guarantee of $100,000 a nd an additional £1,000 to do the
treatment. Upon meeting her back in the 1940s, Roy had described T ravers,
a delicat e-looking woman with a dainty chin, thin arching brows, and wide-
set e yes, as an “Amelia Earhardt  [ sic ] typ e,” by whic h he presumably meant
that, despite her appearance, she was, like the late aviator , tough-minded
and not easily cowed. He had read her correctly . She was no fan of W alt
Disney’ s work, and she wasn’ t about to let him intimidate her .
But if she was s trong-willed, she was also more than a little dot ty . At the
same tim e that she was disparaging Disney’ s films, she had written her own
Poppins  t rea tment with a  collaborator and submitted it to W alt, and she kept
revising it, even though she refu sed to sign a contract with the studio. W alt
attempted to appease her , inviting her to visit the studio so that, he said, she
could ge t acquainted with his staf f and so that they would have the “benefit
of your reactions to our presentation.” When, after reading the Disney
script, T ravers protested that Mary should not subvert the auth ority of the
parents o f her char ges in asking them to slide up  t he ban ister wit h her , and
that she  should not encourage the little boy to jump in puddl es after his
mother h as told him not to, W alt was more than obliging, wiring her that the
“Mary P oppins project is so im portant in the overall [scheme] if the two
points raised in your letter will make you happy I shall be pleased to go
along with your suggestions.” But even with this coddling, T rav ers kept the
studio d angling; at one point she agreed to a contract that stipulated
unconditional approval of the script, which W alt signed of f on knowing full
well he wouldn’ t honor it, then a  full year later she said she still  “wanted to
give it some tho ught.” W alt had been working on the film for  nearly two
years before T ravers finally signed the contract.
Even then she wasn’ t happy . “When we sat down with Mrs. T ravers to
present our treatment,” recalled  the Sherman brothers, who were writing a
musical score for the picture and  had helped block out the story , “she hated
everything we had done. Disliked it with a passion! For every chapter we
developed, she had a definite feeling we had selected the worst one. She