# Página 328  
complaints that he was slow and  disor ganized and technically deficient, was
assigned the task of animating scenes of Snow White, presumably from
Luske’ s model sheets. From the  first it was an unhappy partnership. Luske
saw Sno w Whit e as young and  innocent, essentially a child, and he had
drawn her with slightly cartoonish proportions and soft, round, oversize
features to convey those qu alities. Natwick conceived o f her very
dif ferently . Befitting the man who had made his reputation animating the
sex siren Betty B oop, he saw he r as mature and womanly , and he dismissed
Luske’ s models, griping that they displayed no sense of anatomy—no spine,
as he put it.
That these two conceptions com peted for months, with animators lining
up behin d one or the other , was yet another example of how the  studio was
groping its way on the feature, l earning as it went. W as Snow White to be a
fanciful, traditional cartoon char acter or an edgier , more realistic one? W alt
again w as loath to make a decision, though he finally sided wi th Luske, in
part because W alt had always spoken of her as a girl himself, in part
because Luske’ s Snow White was easier to draw . But even after siding with
Luske, he discarded most of Lu ske’ s trial animation and had N atwick, and
later Lu ske’ s assistant Jack Campbell, redraw Snow White to make her
leaner , s harper , less cartoonish, and more realistic. Natwick complied, later
claiming, in a complete reversal, that “Snow White was a  sweet and
graceful little girl and we just tr ied not to clown her up.” Even so Natwick
was so uncertain  about what W alt really wanted that by his own  estimate he
animated twenty-six scenes before showing any of them to W alt.
But for all the head-butting between Luske and Natwick, Snow White
had become, in some ways, the least of W alt’ s problems. A much bigger
concern was the dwarfs. It had t aken nearly two years to winnow the list of
possibilities, and as late as Nove mber 1935, when he was alread y assigning
animation for models and rough s, W alt had still not finalized the names of
the dwarfs or th eir personalities. It was late that month that W alt seemed to
decide that Dopey would be mu te (Doc: “That’ s Dopey! He don’ t talk!”),
and it wasn’ t until sometime in January 1936 that a dwarf na med Deafy ,
described as a “ happy sort of f ellow” who nevertheless takes umbrage at