# Página 552  
and boost productivity yet aga in and facing a new negotiation with the
Screen Cartoonists Guild, sugge sted another round of layof fs and submitted
another reor ganization plan, apparently at W alt’ s recommendation. Under
the new plan, Leahy would be promoted to Reeder ’ s position and placed on
the boar d of directors. They would need a “top administrative  post to be
filled by a man in whom both y ou and Roy have complete confidence”; the
appointee was to have responsibility for all departments in the studio. “He
must be welcom ed everywher e  i n the Studio,” Reeder wrote, “ not as a front
of fice man or a s a production man or as a selling man but  as the co-
ordinator who is doing his best to make the or ganization click as a whole.”
Reeder didn’ t have to say that he saw himself in this role. The re was only
one prob lem. A t the W alt Disn ey Studio, W alt Disney was th e one who
coordinated all the departments and made sure the or ganization clicked.
That had always been his primary responsibility .
W alt did n’ t fire his new managers, but they were soon dangling, just as
all of W alt’ s managers had dangled, not knowing exactly where their
authority left of f and W alt’ s b egan. T ytle thought that W alt realized he
needed s omeone in Reeder ’ s position to do the logistical work  while W alt
did the creative work—“in the  mechanical, though not the s piritual,” as
T ytle put it—but “it was almost impossible to let someone else call the
shots, n o matter how mundane,” which was why W alt kept undermining
them. At the sa me time, with the new team constantly prom oting new
measures for greater productivity and barking at underlings—Reeder even
closed th e friendly poker games at the Penthouse Club—the reo r ganization
resulted less in streamlining and ener gizing the studio, as W alt had
intended, than in further enervating it. As one employee remembered, “The
new people were interposed betw een W alt and Roy and the staf f, and as the
spring and summer wore on, the atmosphere became even grimmer .”  
If the studio atmosphere was grimmer , the high spirits upon which W alt had
briefly s oared at war ’ s end had been dampened too, as he bega n to realize
how dif ficult it w ould be for the  studio to return to its former glory . He was