# Página 168  
that Charles Mintz had lost his Universal contract, a fact that obviously had
W alt reveling, and that the Fleischers had lost their contract too, narrowing
the competition considerably and leaving him with an irresistible
opportunity . “Now is our chance to get a hold on the industry ,” he ur ged
Roy and Ub. “So let’ s take advantage of the situation.”
Part of his strategy was to gain a foothold in sound recording. Having
been rescued by sound himself, W alt now decided to open a recording
studio in California for other i ndependent producers on whic h, W alt had
written his partners, “W e should be able to clean up a nice sum.” This also
meant th at W alt  would no longer have to spend so much time in the East,
where h e had lived for five of the last six months—all without  Lillian. As
early as October , during his last trip, he was arranging to have Jimmy
Lowerre, who was running the  camera at the studio, come to New Y ork,
learn sound recording, and become the studio’ s resident sound engineer .
In this endeavor  W alt was stron gly encouraged by Pat Powers, and for
good rea son. Powers would be f urnishing the recording equipment and was
even negotiating  to lease the Marshall Neilan studio on Glend ale A venue,
where W alt was planning not only to set up the recording studio but to
relocate his entire or ganization  for the bar gain rental of $100 a month.
Powers was also arranging to lend W alt his own sound specialist, W illiam
Garity , f or six months at a salary  of $150 a week. W alt was so enthused—or
Powers had gotten him enthused —that he was even talking of optioning at
least two  more sound outfits from Powers, another on the W est Coast and
one in the Midwest. But none of this came cheaply from a sharpie like
Powers. In addition to the 10 percent distribution fee he was to  receive for
the Mic keys, Powers demanded  a royalty of twenty-five cents per foot of
finished negative, plus—and this was the kicker—$13,000, a very
substantial sum in 1928, each y ear for a term of ten years, whether W alt
used Cinephone  or not, whether any other producers used Cine phone, and
whether Cineph one later proved obsolete or not. He also deman ded $5,000
upon signing— $5,000 that W alt did not have. In short, P owers was
essentially pulling in the line on which he had W alt Disney hooked.