# Página 829  
room. D iane too k Sharon’ s hand and placed it on W alt’ s. “Now Daddy , now
you won’ t hurt anymore,” Sharon whispered. W alt had died at 9:35 a.m. on
December 15 of “Cardiac arrest due to Bronchogenic ca[rcinoma].” “I took
care of W alt in his final days,” a  nurse wrote the family , “and just want you
to know that the poor man was so fearful.”
W ord trickled back to the stu dio across the street, even before the
announcement was made to each department over the public address
system. The studio was to clos e and everyone was to be sent home, but
most, stu nned, c ouldn’ t leave, preferring to stay and talk to one another for
consolation. Ma ny couldn’ t talk. Many wept. Many , in utter dis belief, went
to H azel Geor ge seeking confirmation or , more hopefully , refutation. “I
knew that he was very sick,” said Lucille Martin, one of his secretaries,
“but I had such faith that they  would fly in some super doctor and save
him.”
“The de ath of W alt Disney is a loss to all the people of the wo rld,” Roy
said in a statement issued by th e studio. “There is no way to r eplace W alt
Disney . He was an extraordinary man. Perhaps there will never  be another
like him.” But, Roy promised, “W e will continue to operate W alt’ s company
in th e way that he had established and guided it. All of the plans for the
future that W alt had begun will continue to move ahead.” This was not
entirely to happen. Just before entering the hospital for his operation, W alt,
clearly f eeling the press of time, had scolded General Potter and Marvin
Davis fo r not expediting EPCOT . “Why are you dragging you r feet?” he
asked th em. “Is  it because of the money? Have you been talking to Roy?
Roy thinks EPCOT is a loser , but don’ t take any notice of him. Disney
W orld w ill make all the profits we need for this operation.” He h ad come to
fear that  EPCOT would not be built if anything happened to h im, and he
had cried to Hazel Geor ge ove r what his legacy would be if it weren’ t.
“Fancy b eing remembered around the world for the invention o f a mouse!”
he lame nted. A few months after W alt’ s death Marvin Davis presented the
Imagineers’ EPC OT plans to R oy . “Marvin, W alt’ s dead,” Roy said.* And
so was EPCOT .