# Página 456  
hours str aight w ithout relief. When W alt heard that production was going to
shut dow n brief ly because one of the camera operators was going to be
married, he of fered to get Stoko wski and the Philadelphia Orchestra to play
at the man’ s ceremony if he an d his bride would take their vows on the
soundstage and keep the film in production. And yet after all that, when
W alt saw  the developed film, he decided it couldn’ t be used be cause there
was a jitter . “It’ s a lousy job,” he told them, and ordered tha t it be done
again. During the reshoot there was a small earthquake, and once again the
scene was ruined and had to be reshot. By the time they got it right, it was
the d ay b efore th e New Y ork pre miere. Herb T aylor , who later b ecame head
of the sound department, remem bered that a motorcycle was idling at the
door to take the film to the airport so that it could be flown to New Y ork
and spliced into the last reel. T aylor didn’ t leave the studio until eight
o’clock the next morning. W riting W alt two days after th e premiere,
Stokowski lauded the film as “something that will arrest the attention of all
classes of men a nd women in every part of the world,” but he felt that “A ve
Maria” needed to be redubbed “to give it more appeal.” W alt declined. He
had tampered enough.  
Now the film w as in the hands of the public. W alt had long reco gnized that
while Fantasia  w as going to b e an aesthetic milestone and a completely
new departure in animation, it w as also going to be a “slow money maker ,
but a big money maker in the long run.” This was not exactly the kind of
talk that  endear ed him to his distributor , RKO. W ith little pro spect of an
immediate return, they seemed to have little interest in the film, especially
since, to  enhanc e its prestige, W alt had always insisted that it be exhibited
as a roadshow attraction with reserved seating in a limited number of
theaters outfitted with his expensive Fantasound system. It was Roy who
proposed as early as February that the studio find its own backers and then
release the film themselves. He suggested that someone like Nelson
Rockefeller , an heir to the Rockefeller oil fortune and a strong p roponent of
the fine arts, might want to beco me part of a joint venture. The Rockefeller
name, he thought, would also help legitimize the film. In the end there