# Página 156  
Universal head Carl Laemmle, e ven hiring goons to cart of f the props from
one of Laemmle’ s Universal fi lms while it was in production . “When in
doubt,” wrote one contemporary film historian, “Powers attacks.” During
the company’ s annual meeting at Universal’ s headquarters at 1600
Broadway in New Y ork, Pow ers, in an incident that wou ld become
legendary in early movie lore, grabbed the books and tossed them out the
window to an accomplice below .
By the time W alt met him, the d ust of Powers’ s pitched battles had long
settled, b ut the old movie vetera n had lost little of his rapacity , a nd he knew
a mark when h e saw one. T we nty-six-year -old W alt Disney , who always
seemed to be s earching for a paternal figure from whom he could win
approval and to whom he could attach his fortunes, was trusting and easily
conned, and he had clearly fallen for Powers. After spending most of the
day with “the g ood-natured cu ss” shortly after arriving in Ne w Y ork, he
wrote Roy that Powers regaled him with an account of his various travails
at Universal with Erich von Stroheim, a director and actor known for his
perfectionism and extravagance, and then introduced him to the general
manager of T if fany-Stahl Prod uctions, who happened to stop by , which
clearly i mpressed W alt. A few days later when W alt revisited Powers, the
actor Geor ge W alsh was in the of fice, chatting up W alt about polo, as was
the orch estra leader from the la vish Capitol Theater , Carl Edouarde, who,
W alt said, was “very enthused over the possibilities of the picture.” “Has
oodles of Jack,” W alt wrote Roy of Powers glowingly .
By this point W alt was just about snared. He visited RCA, whic h tried to
stall him on mak ing a decision o n a sound system, and let him see a sample
film, the Aesop’ s Fable. W alt found it appalling. “A lot of racket and
nothing else,” he wrote Roy . “W e have nothing to worry about from these
quarters.” The demonstration apparently convinced him. That same
afternoon he returned to Pow ers’ s of fice and closed the deal to use
Cinephone for W illie.  Powers was char ging only fifty dollars for his
technical expertise behind the microphone, while W alt would be responsible
for the musicians and sound ef fects men, though even here Powers of fered
to recruit a sma ll orchestra at a cut rate and expected the entir e recording
session to take no more than three to four hours. W alt estimated the cost at