# Página 354  
his p lan. “I think we will have to do a lot of indirect selling to th e press,” by
which he meant placing feature stories in papers and magazines.
Whatever small doubts they might have harbored over RKO’ s
prospective publicity ef forts, however , the Disneys had a much greater issue
with their new distributor—one  they almost seemed afraid to  broach. As
naïve as it may have sounded after their nearly fifteen years in the film
business, they had no idea what to char ge exhibitors for the film and no idea
what RK O’ s retu rn to them mig ht be, which they fully realized  made them
vulnerable to RKO’ s machinations. The lar ger studios typically sold their
films in blocks, so their advice wouldn’ t have been particularly helpful to a
studio with only one feature to sell. What the Disneys needed was an
independent producer to guide them, of which there were v ery few in
Hollywood at the time. As it turned out, the knight who rode to their rescue
was W alt’ s old idol, Charlie Chaplin. Chaplin of fered to give the Disneys all
his “records and experience,” m ost importantly his ledgers from Modern
T imes,  wh ich permitted Roy to press RKO to “go out and ask Chaplin
prices” and to get the same terms in foreign markets as Chaplin  had gotten.
Thanking Chaplin after Snow White ’ s release, W alt called it an “invaluable
service” and wrote, “Y our recor ds have been our Bible—without them, we
would have been as sheep in a den of wolves.”  
W ith the  financ es resolved, the day to which the entire studio had been
pointing for years, December 21, 1937, was finally upon the m. The last
week of November W alt was filmed for a Snow White  trailer , and the next
week the studio headed en masse to Pomona, an hour ’ s car ride east of Los
Angeles, for the film’ s first sneak preview—its first exposure to a non-
studio, n onindustry audience. As Ben Sharpsteen remembered it, most of
the studio’ s employees were no t informed, and those who w ere, the top
personnel, arrived at the theater unceremoniously in a bus. The audience
was taken totally by surprise, but only a few walked out, which apparently
was a rarity for a  sneak preview , and the employees left the thea ter feeling a
sense of elation, vindication, and anticipation. W ith the premiere