# Página 186  
himself assured W alt that “the year to come will show them all who is really
responsible for Mickey Mouse.”
While the warfare with Powers continued—the Disneys had still not cut
their ties  or signed with a new distributor—and Powers geared up for his
own studio by raiding Universal for Ham Hamilton, poaching Hugh
Harman from Mintz, and attempting to pry sound engineer W illiam Garity
from W a lt, W alt  and Roy wasted  no time bringing in reinforcem ents of their
own. The very day Stalling resigned, Roy met with Ollie W allace, a former
or ganist at the Million Dollar T heater in downtown Los Angeles, who had
been recommen ded by Mickey Mouse Club impresario Harry W oodin as a
possible replacement. W allace laughed derisively when Roy t old him the
salary , $150, but Roy said that if W allace’ s contributions paid of f, he would
be a mply rewarded. At W alt’ s i nsistence, Roy had also tendered a contract
to T om Palmer , who had bee n working for producer W alter Lantz at
Universal, and promoted Bill C ottrell, who had joined the st udio a year
earlier in ink and paint, to animation. That same week Roy hired animator
Dave H and, wh o had been train ed at the Chicago Academy o f Fine Arts,
where W alt had once studied, and then worked at the Bray studio. Nearly all
the r ecruits earned more than W alt, whose salary fluctuated between $125
and $15 0 a week, depending on  how much money was in the st udio’ s till at
the time.
Meanwhile W alt was girding for the final showdown. He and Roy had
decided that they would try to en list Columbia on their side by complaining
that by luring Iwerks away , Powers had disrupted their or ganization,
delayed their production schedule, and generally wreaked havoc , which was
costing n ot only  the Disneys but  Columbia as well. Roy even suggested that
W alt use Powers as an excuse to discontinue the Symphonies or deliberately
produce a few inferior ones to support their case. (In fact, W alt a dvised Roy
to suspend temporarily product ion on the Mickey Mouses, which Powers
still distributed, and concentrate on the Symphonies, which Columbia
distributed.) T o press their cla im, the brothers hired a young  California
attorney named Gunther Lessing, who headed to New Y ork to help W alt
cope wit h Powe rs. “A TT ORNEYS POSITIVE CONTRACT CAN EASIL Y
BE A BANDON ED IF NOT SA TISF ACT ORIL Y ADJUSTED,”  W alt wired