# Página 447  
and the tyranny of profits. Three days after the issue he impulsiv ely decided
to g o to New Y ork to hear a  demonstration of a stereophonic sound
reproduction system at Carnegie Hall, wheedling Lillian and Ben
Sharpsteen and Sharpsteen’ s wife into joining him. On the w ay back the
group s topped at Dearborn, Michigan, where W alt visited  the Ford
automobile factory and Greenfield V illage, a historical park erected by
Henry F ord. At the conclusion o f a lunch in W alt’ s honor , Ford himself, one
of W alt ’ s heroes, made a surp rise appearance. During small talk W alt
happened to mention the recent stock issue. Ford was blunt. “If you sell any
of it, you should  sell all of it,” he warned. W alt admitted that “ kind of left
me think ing and  wondering for a while,” wondering if he had crossed a
bridge a nd could  never go back , wondering if he had surrendered ultimate
control.
V
If they had needed an infusion of money , they also desperately needed to
rush a new feature into produ ction after Fantasia  to gen erate profits.
Though W alt was already hurrying a version of Jack and the Beanstalk
starring Mickey  Mouse as Jack  for release at Easter 1941 and though he
optimistically thought Bambi  might be ready by the fall of that year , he had,
in th e meantime, pounced on another project. He had read a slim new
children’ s book titled Dumbo,  about a young circus elephan t who gets
ridiculed for his oversize ears, only to discover that those flapping ears can
serve as wings. What W alt loved about the idea—after wrestling with
Bambi, Pinocchio,  a nd even his beloved Fantasia —was that it was so
simple. “It’ s there,” he pronounced to one Bambi  s tor y meeting. “I mean I
can see personal ities right away .” Conveniently Norm Fer guson ’ s crew was
just finishing animating the hippopotamuses and elephants in the “Dance of
the Hours” sequence for Fantasia  so they  could be shifted to Dumbo
without months  of having to learn how to draw the characters, and the
studio h ad other  animators as w ell, W alt believed, who might not be well
suited to the realism and subtlety demanded by Bambi  but could do the
broader figures of Dumbo.  Eve n better fro m W alt’ s perspective, Dumbo
required none of the special ef fects that had slowed the production and