# Página 822  
see him sag,” said one member of the crew . Still, at the end of October , after
the film was c ompleted, he was flying back east yet again to visit
Charleston, Newport News, and W illiamsbur g with Lillian, Sharon, and
Sharon’ s husband to gather material for Disney W orld.
As muc h as W alt may have w anted to deny it, he was clearly ailing.
Before the eastern trip his neck a nd his leg had been bothering him so much
that, at the sugg estion of his doctor , he finally and reluctantly agreed to see
a specialist who, in turn, recommended an operation to relieve the pressure
on the nerves. The procedure was scheduled for November 1 1 at the UCLA
Medical Center and was considered routine. Roy headed of f for  a vacation,
scheduling his return just befo re W alt’ s “‘D’ date,” as he called it, and
writing him, “I will be thinking  and praying that you get everything out of
that ope ration th at you hope for . ” The studio prepared a press release nearly
two wee ks in advance with the assurance that he would be rele ased within
ten to fourteen days.
W alt, while no hypochondriac, was nevertheless distrustful of doctors
and was  concern ed. He had shor tness of breath, and the excess weight, with
which he had b een struggling for years, suddenly began meltin g away , so
that now he lo oked emaciated  and ill. He must have known that his
employees were  commenting on his appearance—commenting on whether
he was seriously  ill. W riter Jac k Spiers was standing uncomfortably with
W alt in an elevator the week be fore W alt’ s hospitalization when their eyes
locked. W alt was wearing a bright yellow cardigan, a reminder of
wardrobes past. Spiers joked that he would like to wrestle W alt for the
sweater , and the two made small talk before exiting. Then, just as Spiers
stepped into his of fice, he heard W alt’ s voice booming from down the hall,
calling him. “When I get out of the hospital,” W alt said w hen Spiers
reentered the hallway , “I will  wrestle you for the sweater .” At roughly the
same time Peter Ellenshaw s aw W alt and expressed alarm about the
impending operation. “I’m not  going over there to die,” W alt told him
evenly . “There’ s no problem.”
But there was  a  problem, and  W alt must have suspected it. In doing a
diagnostic workup prior to the sur gery , the doctors had discover ed spots on