# Página 704  
so absorbed in the next thing, in the thing to come, that when I finish a
picture, I for get the damn thing, ” he once said. The park was di f ferent. The
park was or ganic. If it fell sho rt, he could keep plussing it, changing it,
expanding it. He liked to say that it would never be finished.
He didn’ t want to disengage from Disneyland—Disneyland was his life
now . “H e knew everything that went into the park,” Dick Irvine said as one
might have once commented about W alt’ s knowledge of the studio. “He
knew wh ere eve ry pipe was. He  knew the height of every building.” Lillian
said he knew where every nail in the park was located. After it s disastrous
opening and during the sweltering one-hundred-degree heat wave that
followed, he was spending virtually all his time at the park “ironing out
some little problems,” as he told one journalist. But even with the problems
ironed o ut, he could not pull him self away , and as late as December he was
still spending most of his time at the park, especially on the weekends. “Y ou
know , Jo e,” he told Joe Fowler , “I come down here to get a re al rest from
the humdrum of making pictures at the studio. This is my real amusement.
This is where I relax.”
Though he had an electric cart, he would usually prowl the park on foot,
with tha t long, loping farmboy’ s  stride of his, often being mobbed by guests
who recognized  him from television and asked for his auto graph. (He
would la ter institute a policy of asking them to send requests t o the studio
because he could scarcely make his way through the park with the
interruptions.) He would swoop down on the rides. Sometimes,
remembered one Jungle Cruise boat operator , he would just s tand on the
dock an d watch . Other times he would jump in a boat by himself or with
other pa ssengers. When he got a four -minute ride instead of  the seven-
minute o ne, he complained to A dventureland manager Dick Nunis: “If the
trip is seven minutes and you cut out three minutes, it’ s like going to a
movie a nd having some important reels left out.” When he wasn’ t
supervising, he was enjoying th e park like a child with a giant playset. An
employee at the Sunkist Citrus House remembered him coming by on
Sunday morning s to stuf f oranges into the juicing machines. So metimes he
would suddenly  appear at night —even at four o’clock in the morning. “He
practically lived there,” Lillian would say , as he had once lived at the