# Página 662  
thousand of them, in an area that was the country’ s lar gest provider of
V alencia orange s. In addition to  its location, it had the advantage of having
only sev enteen o wners, most of whom had been thinking of turning the land
into a housing development, an d only fifteen homes scattered across the
property; the price was relatively inexpensive—$4,800 per ac re, save for
one plot  that had been leased t o a trailer factory , which, after the studio
agreed to buy th e company’ s assets, settled for $6,200 per acre. W alt got the
news of the purc hase from an associate while walking in Piccadilly Square
in Lond on, though the purchase wouldn’ t be announced publicly until the
following May .
Now all W alt Disney needed was the money to build his park.
III
All the time he had been planning Disneyland, W alt admitted that he hadn’ t
paid par ticular a ttention to how he would finance it. The preliminary work
from Pe reira and Luckman and SRI had been authorized and underwritten
by W alt Disney Productions. But even before the planning had accelerated,
W alt had  to dip into his own fu nds. He borrowed against his life insurance
policy—“My wife kept compl aining that if anything happened to me I
would h ave spen t all her money ,” he told a reporter only half fa cetiously—
and, in part to of fset the cost of the new house, had borrow ed another
$50,000 from the bank, whic h he called the “limit of my personal
borrowing ability .” He had no sooner completed a house at Smoke T ree,
(which, he gushed to his aunt, was the “first time we have ever had a place
away from town and we are all getting quite a kick out of having it,”) than
he had to sell it, ar guing that he was just too busy to get away but actually
because he needed the money . He even coaxed Hazel Geor ge to invest, and
she formed a Disneyland Boosters and Backers Club of studio employees.
W alt claimed that Roy was less  amenable, though this claim m ay have
been mo re self-dramatization by someone who always liked  to portray
himself as having to battle th e conventional wisdom. Whenever W alt
broached the subject with his br other , W alt said, “he’d always suddenly get