# Página 126  
never in  front of Lillian’ s sister ’ s house—because, Lillian thought, he was
probably embarrassed by his somewhat ragged appearance. Despite his
threadbare cloth es, Lillian admitted that it was during these ride s home that
“I began to look  at him like he was a somebody .” W alt had b egun taking
notice o f her too. One night as he was letting her out, he asked  whether he
could se e her socially if he got a new suit. Lillian assented, so he and Roy
went to  Foreman & Clark’ s, a downtown haberdashery , and bought
themselves each a two-pant suit, which was a significant expen se for them.
(Roy ha d set a thirty-five dollar limit, but W alt exceeded it.) When W alt
arrived to pick her up for thei r date—he had gotten tickets for No, No,
Nanette— he stood up, proudly displayed his new gray-green double-
breasted suit, and with no self- consciousness whatsoever asked her sister ,
brother -in-law , a nd niece how they liked his wardrobe. His naï veté, Lillian
said, cha rmed them. Y et for all his winsomeness and attractiven ess, Lillian
made it seem as if they were d ating by default. “I didn’ t hav e any other
dates,” she said, “and neither did he.”
Even aft er they began dating regularly , it often seemed less a lo ve match
than a matter of  companionship. W alt visited Lillian frequently —“All of a
sudden W alt was at our house an awful lot,” recalled Lillian’ s niece,
Marjorie—yet even the Sewells could not figure out whether W alt was there
because of Lilly or because Hazel was an excellent cook. W alt would go
there in the evenings, roust Marjorie from the sofa where she slept, and
send her of f to Lillian’ s room so that he and Lillian could ha ve privacy .
Then, before he left, he would carry Marjorie back to the sofa and gently
tuck her in. Afte r he bought his Moon roadster with its light on  the radiator
—he had previously borrowed V ir ginia Davis’ s father ’ s Ford f or the rides
home—he and Lillian would go  for long drives through the orange groves
east to Pomona and Riverside and even north to Santa Barbara. Other times
they would go to  Hollywood tearooms for dinner . Frequently the y would go
to the movies. On these drives and on these dates, W alt would  be talking,
incessantly talki ng, but he wou ld talk not so much about their future as
about hi s—about his work and plans and what he hoped to ac complish in
animation. “He never thought of anything, I think,” Edna Francis Disney
recalled, more expansively than  Lillian herself ever did, “except his work
and Lilly…. [H]e just thought about her and his work.”