# Página 323  
And so finally in February 19 36—after nearly three years of incessant
tinkering, after the training sessions, the ongoing recruitments, the
expansion of the studio, and th e establishment of the bonus system—the
animation of Snow White  b egan. But eve n as the staf f drew its roughs and
continued to experiment, W alt’ s passion did not abate. He was s till fiddling,
still ago nizing, still reviewing the script with his staf f scene by scene for
three or more hours at a time several times each week and on weekends too
—scenes that he had already be en laboring over and picking at for years. It
was as if he cou ldn’ t let go, possibly because he knew that since  he couldn’ t
draw it himself,  he would be yielding his absolute control ov er the film
once it was being animated. Frank Thomas said that W alt was involved with
Snow White  “nig ht a nd day , night and day . W alt lived every sprocket hole of
this film.” Milt Kahl agreed: “It was the love of his life at that time.”
Every w eek that winter right th rough the fall revised continuities would
arrive fr om the story department, continuities that W alt had lar gely dictated,
and every week W alt would pore over them again, making suggestions.
“Open w ith dancing—Happy playing or gan and dif ferent instrum ents by the
various dwarfs,”  he advised at one typical story session on the sequence in
which th e dwarfs stage an entert ainment for Snow White, “—finish it—folk
dancing idea—concentrate on the stuf f that would fit that—then a specialty ,
each dw arf wrot e himself—then  get gadget stuf f—then Snow W hite wants
to hear something else—then th e Lady in the Moon [a song]—when they
finish—they wa nt her to do something and she tells them a love story
—‘Once upon a time’—very dramatic—we haven’ t touched the
possibilities.” W ithin a three-we ek period a single scene could be subjected
to as many as five lengthy meetings.
And always, as he had been doing for years now , he would recite the
story to anyone  who would list en and to many who had already listened,
anything from a short version t o the full three-hour performance. Even as
late as Decemb er 1936, after much of the rough animation  had been
completed and some had been okayed for cleanup, W alt was still telling the
story in its entirety at a meetin g—every cut, every fade-out, every line of
dialogue. “[H]e was telling it all the time,” Eric Larson remembered. “He
would sit down and just talk to any of us about it, and he would tell the