# Página 663  
busy wi th some  figures, so I mean I didn’ t dare bring it up.  But I kept
working on it and I worked on i t with my own money .” Roy told a reporter
that he “wonder ed where the money was coming from, but I didn’ t ask; it
was his baby , and he could have it.” Then, Roy said, he got a call from a
banker saying that W alt had come to see him to ask for a loan on the park.
“W e we nt over the plans,” the b anker told Roy . “Y ou know , Roy , that park
is a won derful idea!” Roy said, “I nearly fell out of my chair .” W alt got his
seed money from the bank, and Roy was more favorably disposed.
But Roy , though hesitant, wasn ’ t as unsympathetic as either h e or W alt
later por trayed h im as being, any more than he had been when W alt had
wanted to make Snow White.  In fact, as early as March 1952 Roy had
written W alt that he had been “thinking considerable” about the
“Amusement Park matter” and recommended that W alt present the idea to
W alt Di sney Productions throu gh a third party so that W alt would be
insulated from char ges that he was using the company for his pe rsonal ends.
“I don’ t see it clearly yet,” Roy admitted, “but I do think the idea should be
considered and studied on its m erits [—] the whole idea to me has great
possibilities.” It  was also at this time that Roy first asked W alt to consider
revising his personal relationship to the studio—a revision that would lead
to WED. “In th at way ,” he closed, “this Amus. Park idea could be the
vehicle to straighten out your entire matters,” which was exactly what
happened.
But even  as he was financing the park’ s planning lar gely out o f his own
pocket and hoping to get additio nal financing from the studio, W alt already
had a plan: television. T elevision would save him.  
W alt Disney had been fascinated  by television at least since the mid-1930s,
when he  had gone to Camden, New Jersey , to see a demonstr ation of the
new medium by RCA head Da vid Sarnof f. When he decided to terminate
his d istribution agreement with  United Artists at the same time and sign
instead with RKO, one of the sticking points had been telev ision rights.
W alt de manded that the studio retain them. Over the years he had only