# Página 294  
making detailed suggestions: “Birds disturb dwarfs at work—‘The Queen!’
Wham! Over rocks—thru’ the trees—swing on vines—‘T arzan’ to the
rescue—slip of f log over stream—down clif fs—sand banks—see Queen
beating it.” Or after Snow Whit e has taken a bite from the poisoned apple
that the peddler /Queen has tricked her into eating: “Dwarfs ba ck at house
—‘T oo late.’ Pull hats of f—one leads in prayer—Sobbing pierce s hush—all
weep and sob.” Though they se emed to have sprung directly from W alt’ s
imagination, these scenes turned out to be very close to the ones in the
finished film.
Mickey Mouse and Donald D uck were now afterthoughts, as W alt
delegated as much responsibility for the shorts as possible so that he could
focus on Snow White.  Onc e th e first outlines had been presented, he began
meeting with the writers several times each week throughout October and
November at what were often marathon sessions. His first order of business,
after he and the staf f had established the basic lineaments of the story , was
naming the dwarfs. The initial lists included Scrappy , Cranky , Dirty , A wful,
Blabby , Silly , Daf fy , Flabby , J aunty , Biggo Ego, Chesty , Jumpy , Baldy ,
Hickey (“always hiccoughing at wrong moment”), Gabby , Shorty , Nifty ,
Wheezy , Snif fy ,  Burpy , Lazy , Puf fy , Dizzy , Stuf fy , and T ubby , along with
Grumpy , Happy , Doc, Bashful, and Dopey , which would even tually make
the final  cut, though not witho ut considerably more scrutiny . While they
pondered these names—and the y would be pondering them for months—
W alt decided to break down the story into narrative blocks the way he broke
down animation  into scenes, beginning with the introduction of the dwarfs
to Snow  White.  “Rather than spend too much of our ener gy at the present
time wo rking out the first and less important sequences,” we nt a studio
instruction at the end of Octobe r , “W alt prefers to start actual work at the
point where Snow White finds the cottage of the Seven Dwarfs. FROM
THIS POINT ON , ou r basic plot development is fairly definitely
established. Wh at happens UP T O THA T TIME  i s still rather h azy .” The
first dialogue, most likely tra nscribed by Dick Creedon from W alt’ s
recitation, was dated October 19 , and Creedon delivered a full draft of the
scene three days later .