# Página 656  
arrived at his de sk the next mo rning, he found a sheet of tracing paper on
which W alt had redrawn the en tire attraction. “Here, quit fooling around
and draw it the way it should be,” he ordered Davis.
Y et for all the work and for all the long hours, W alt was happie r than he
had been in year s. He visited the  WED bungalow frequently as he had once
visited the animators’ room s—overseeing, brainstorming, musing,
enthusing, goadi ng. And he reveled in WED the way he had onc e reveled in
the old Hyperion studio. “Dam mit, I love it here,” he exulted to Marc
Davis, w ho wou ld move from animation to WED. “WED is just like the
Hyperion studio  used to be in th e years when we were always working on
something new .” He had found n ot only a purpose again but also, as he had
hoped, the small joyous community he so desperately wanted: a
revivification of  the cult. “I thought that was why he enjoyed himself so
much at the be ginning of WED,” Bill Cottrell observed. “Because once
again, he owned WED as he once owned the Studio, before it went
public…. I think there was a fee ling that W alt must have had, and certainly
I had  it, that at WED you no longer had any big departments to deal with….
It was just fun to get back into  that small scale again.” W alt called it his
“sandbox.”
Over the months, as the WED s taf f loosed their imaginations, the project
underwent what  one might call  a philosophical transformation . From the
first, W alt had never thought of Disneyland as a traditional amusement
park; th e whole idea had been  to make something dif ferent, something
better . B ut the conceptualization, in part limited by the relativel y small site,
had nevertheless  been narrow too—a sort of combination of K nott’ s Berry
Farm, with its rustic American setting, and a kiddieland with rides. By the
time WED and W alt embarked on their constant plussing, Disneyland had
evolved into something much m ore unusual and much more grandiose—not
just a park that could provide fun and diversion but a k ind of full
imaginative universe that could provide a unified experience. It was truly a
land  r ath er th an an amusement park. At least that was how the planners and
W alt had come to think of it. Disneyland would be something for which
there was no antecedent.