# Página 163  
or ganized a cannibal tribe at T arrytown, New Y ork, to advertise a picture,
turned a failure into a national success by having a lion stop at a first class
hotel an d even got Rudolph V alentino’ s heart to lie in state in a California
museum.”
When W alt met him in Ne w Y ork, Reichenbach, after years of
representing a variety of film companies in promotional stunts, had become
manager of the Colony Theater on Broadway , the very place where
Universal had hoped to screen W illie  before negotiations broke down. Ever
since th e recording session, W alt had been taking his print of W illie  from
distributor to distributor , sitting  in the projection room while the cartoon
was run and loo king through the portholes to see the executive s’ reaction,
only to be told they would be in  touch if they were interested. Reichenbach
happened to attend one of thes e screenings and was impressed enough to
approach W alt about the possibi lity of showing W illie  for two weeks at his
theater . When W alt fretted to Reichenbach, as he had to Universal, that the
showing might harm his chances to land a distributor , Reichenba ch told him
that dist ributors never knew if a film was good until they hear d the public
and press response, and he assu red W alt that “they’ll like it.” R eichenbach
of fered him $500 for the run. Somewhat bravely by his own  admission,
W alt countered with $1,000—“t he highest price that anybody’ s e ver paid up
to that time, for a cartoon on Broadway”—and Reichenbach, who obviously
saw potential in W illie,  agreed.
W illie  debuted at the Colony on November 18, 1928, before the feature
film Gang W ar  starring Olive Borden, Eddie Gribbon, and Jack Pickford.*
W ith the studio’ s future now ri ding on the audience’ s reaction, W alt and
Stalling sat nervously near the rear of the theater and, as Stalli ng recalled,
“heard laughs and snickers al l around us.” (W alt would a ttend every
performance those two weeks.) In fact, the reception was astonishing. Even
before th e engagement ended, W alt was receiving accolades from the trade
press an d calls from some of th e same distributors who had b rushed him
of f. “No t the first animated cartoon to be synchronized with sound ef fects,”
raved V ariety ,  “b ut the first to attract favorable attention. This one
represents a high order of cartoon ingenuity , cleverly combined with sound
ef fects. The union brought laughs galore. Giggles came so fast at the