# Página 30  
his c lassmates, confessed, only to find himself being struck wi th the stave
by the teacher .
When h e was not in school o r on the farm, he often spent languid
afternoons fishing with the neighbor boys for catfish and bowheads in
Y ellow Creek and skinny-dippi ng afterward. In the winter they would go
sledding or skating on the froze n creek, building a bonfire on the shore to
keep warm. Sometimes W alt would tag after Erastus T aylor , a Civil W ar
veteran, who would relive his b attle exploits. (“I don’ t think he ever was in
a battle in the Civil W ar ,” W alt later said, “but he was in all of them.”) Even
Sundays were no longer comm itted exclusively to church and Sunday
school since there was no Cong regational church in Marceline. Instead, the
Disneys often spent the day goi ng to the T aylor house just down the road,
where Elias would take out his fiddle and play with his neighbors.
The town was n o less enchanting than the farm. In seeking to escape the
encroachments and dangers of the city , Elias Disney could h ardly have
found a better place than Ma rceline. Though it qualified as frontier ,
Marceline was sedate, even ref ined. Located east of the Locu st River of f
State Highway 5, Marceline, like Ellis, Kansas, was a pro duct of the
railroad boom, specifically of the desire of the Atchison, T opeka , and Santa
Fe Railr oad to establish a “Chicago Extension,” connecting that city to the
west via Kansas City , which lay about 125 miles southwest of the town. The
plan necessitated what were called “terminal” or “division” points roughly
every on e hundr ed miles along t he route, where trains could be serviced and
workers housed. Marceline, whi ch became one of these division points, was
incorporated on  March 6, 1888 , and named, depending on w ho told the
story , after the w ife or the daugh ter of one of the railroad’ s directors, or the
daughter of the town’ s first resident civil engineer , or a French immigrant
who was an ea rly resident. W ithin six months 2,500 people had settled
there, primarily to service the railroad. W ithin a year a prospector named U.
C. Wheelock discovered coal there, eventually leading to the digging of five
mines, which would employ fiv e hundred more men. When th e Santa Fe
was reo r ganized in 1903 and w as divided into an eastern and  a western
division, Marceline became the seat of the latter .