# Página 545  
Mexican folkso ng that W alt had had scored called “Destino,” about how
destiny shapes the lives of two lovers and expressing “ NEW FRESH
POSSIBILITIES OF VISUALIZA TION. ” “W e await with great hope t he
new world that will be born from our collaboration,” Dali wired W alt that
December .
So d id W alt Disney . The criticis ms of Bambi  had especially hurt. Though
he had sought realism from the first as the best means of creating an
alternative universe, he knew that even if he could continue  the march
toward realism (which he could n’ t), he was now increasingly regarded by
intellectuals as an aesthetic trogl odyte and that he had lost the ca chet he had
once enj oyed as a folk artist. “The thing I resent most is people  who try to
keep me in well-worn grooves,” he said to a reporter after embarking on his
partnership with  Dali. “W e have to keep breaking new tra ils,” citing
Fantasia  a s an e xample of a pathbreak ing film that was “panned” at  its
release b ut that had continued to  build an audience. And he said that he kept
a slogan  pasted inside his porkp ie hat from the time he had be en ur ged to
make a sequel to Thr ee Little Pigs : “Y ou can’ t top pigs with pigs!”
Aesthetically speaking, he saw himself as a new W alt Disney—a
rehabilitated W alt Disney . Always remarkably attuned, as critic Barbara
Deming had said, to shifts in the  public temper , even when the public didn’ t
respond, he was now less interes ted in simply replicating an ext ernal reality
than in plumbing  an internal, ps ychological reality , as Dali had a nd as some
American artist s, in a postwar soul-searching, were doing, and he was
interested in incorporating more  fine art and fewer commercial elements of
design into the a nimations. (As for his interest in fine art, in 1943 W alt had
been named a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art in New Y ork.) It wasn’ t
only Dali whom he was enlisting in trying to stretch the bounds of
animation by bringing a new , more subjective sensibility to the medium; he
had recr uited the executive director of the Los Angeles County Museum of
Art to search the  country for fine artists who might also want to collaborate
with the  Disney  studio, and he  had already met with the painter Thomas
Hart Benton about a project.