# Página 358  
employees who  drew , inked, an d painted the quarter -million drawings in
what totaled two hundred years ’ worth of man-hours. While n o animated
cartoon had ever looked like Snow White,  and certainly none had packed its
emotional wallop, it was also true that in none would the investment of
time, ener gy , and devotion be so palpable. In some respects it was the
cinematic equivalent of a Gothic cathedral—only in this case a ll the man-
hours were expended in service to one man’ s vision rather than God’ s glory .
Beyond both the political traumas of the 1930s and the novelty of the
film’ s te chnical achievement, Snow White  also  had  more subliminal but no
less powerful appeals. The jea lousy of the Queen toward Sn ow White’ s
youth and nubile attractiveness provided a sexual subtext—the battle
between one generation’ s fading sexuality and the succeeding generation’ s
sexual a wakening, the latter of which is literally rendered when Snow
White receives her resurrecting kiss from the Prince. Seen this way , Snow
White a nd the dwarfs enact a kind of pubescent ritual of unac knowledged
yearnings, a practice round of maturity , until the Prince arrives to
consummate her passion and bring her to adulthood. Though most viewers
and especially younger ones obviously wouldn’ t have recognized these
elements overtly , the sexuality was also a metaphor for something they
most likely would have unde rstood. As the child psychologist Bruno
Bettelheim desc ribed the fundamental theme of all fairy tales, Snow White
is about assuming one’ s place in the natural order , essentially about growing
up, accepting responsibility , as  Snow White does for the dwarfs and the
dwarfs d o for Snow White, and  taking over .* T he story is no t only W alt
Disney’ s expres sion of his own assumption of power , with the dwarfs
representing his  shorts and the Prince representing the lar ger a mbitions of
the f eature cartoon itself, but an expression of the assumption of power for
everyone who has grown up or intends to, and it would becom e the matrix
for all of Disney’ s great animations in which a child overcomes the hurdles
and treacheries of the adult world and then finds his authority within it.
In this idea of gaining control, the theme of the film and its technical
virtuosity mer ged. Whatever else Snow White  does, this most deliberated-
upon mo vie in the history of film conveys a sense of control, a sense of a
fully fabricated world. For Depr ession audiences specifically as  well as for