# Página 498  
W alt received a telegram, but he chose not to return for th e funeral—
perhaps one last act of rebellion  against the man he felt had s o tormented
him. Instead the South America n crew sent a three-and-a-half-foot cross of
lilies for the chapel. “I believe that by the time you get home, we’ll have it
settled d own and some sense of  the whole thing,” Roy wrote W alt after the
funeral, speaking again of the s trike. “Don’ t be surprised at an ything you
find whe n you come home. W e have been up against a tough proposition
and have done the best we could.”  
W alt returned to the studio in m id-October to find that nearly everything
had changed, though as a result less of the negotiations between
management and the union than of the negotiations between the  studio and
its p rimary benefactor . Now that  the strike was settled, the Bank of America
was mak ing new  demands. Roy had written Joe Rosenber g that he expected
Dumbo  to gross $2 million, Fantasia  th e same, and the impending Bambi
$3 m illion, which would allow the company to reduce its debt to less than
$1 million. But R osenber g was not mollified. Concerned about w hat he saw
as W alt’ s profligacy , he ordered  Roy and Geor ge Morris to the bank’ s San
Francisco headq uarters on October 9 and issued an ultimatum. The bank
would p ermit an  absolute loan limit of $3.5 million. In return, he ordered
the studio to restrict itself to the production of shorts. It would be allowed to
finish the features already in pr oduction— Dumbo, Bambi,  and W ind in the
W illows —but no other feature was to be started until these had been
released and earned back their costs. Though Roy remonstrated that
concentrating exclusively on shorts would cost the studio in terms of
manpower losse s, depleted inventory , and overhead, not to m ention the
dif ficulty of remobilizing shou ld they decide to resume making features,
Rosenber g was unmoved, and Roy wound up abjectly telling h im that the
“entire or ganiza tion now has an entirely new mental attitude an d approach”
designed to cut costs and that he would talk to W alt about ac cepting the
changes, which he knew would devastate him.