# Página 284  
dashed purposef ully about a ho tel room and imitated a bee as a way of
demonstrating w hat he did at the studio. “I’ve got to know whe ther an idea
goes here,” he s aid, dumping “pollen” on a chair , “or here,” racing to the
interviewer and dumping the in visible pollen on the man’ s kn ees. Almost
everyone at the studio admired how W alt, in either conducti ng them or
flitting among them, for ged them into a unit. “W e all had egos,” Eric Larson
admitted, “but W alt had a way of taking those egos and making them work
together as a team.” “He could disarm people by using the word ‘we’
instead of ‘I,’” Ben Sharpsteen said. “Obviously everything w as based on
what W alt Disney did, what he wanted to do and what he expected to do,
but he would invariably say ‘we.’” Bob Broughton, who worked in the
camera department at the time, said, “That was what W alt’ s main talent
was, I think…. He made you feel part of a family .” W alt seem ed to agree.
Though he had said that he wa nted to be remembered as a storyteller , he
told his daughter Diane: “Of a ll the things I’ve done, the most vital is
coordinating tho se who work f or us and aiming their ef forts at a certain
goal.”*
Among his employees, the sum total of all these attributes evoked
unbounded adu lation for the young man who possessed them. Many ,
including W alt, had previously observed the similarity between the
animator and God. At the Disney studio this similarity was manifest in the
attitude of the employees toward their leader , who was spoken of in quasi-
religious terms. “When he’d com e into a room, the hair would stand up on
the b ack of your  neck figuratively ,” Dick Huemer remembered.  “He’d have
that ef fe ct on you. Y ou’d feel t he presence. It was spooky .” D irector Jack
Hannah claimed  that W alt elicited “awe.” “Y ou just felt it if he  was in the
same wing of the building you  were in. I know it sounds we ird but you
never go t over that awe of him .” “He had an overwhelming power over
people a nd the voice of a proph et,” said animator Joe Grant. “ Y ou always
had the feeling he knew what you were going to say and he seemed to know
things before they happened. That sort of omnipotence held a mental
control o ver you .” “Y ou talk as  if he were God,” gagman Roy W illiams’ s
sister -in-law , who was married to a minister , scolded him when W illiams
spoke reverently of W alt. T o which W illiams snapped, “He is.”