# Página 515  
the Coordinator ’ s Of fice to produce overt propaganda, films that were
designed to influence opinion rather than educate. “Disney is fearful of
being labeled as a propagandist in the public mind, with consequent damage
to his reputation as a whimsical, non-political artist,” W allace Deuel, the
coordinator for information, told a T reasury Department of ficial before W alt
was to visit the department that  March to discuss another set of films. “He
is bothered by a few abusive letters he has had about the New Spirit,
char ging him with various polit ical, racial and other af filiations,” and W alt
apparently recalled a question that Lowell Mellett, the head of the Of fice of
W ar Information , had asked hi m over dinner at Secretary M or genthau’ s
house during W alt’ s earlier visit: “Aren’ t you afraid that you will hurt your
reputation by this sort of thing?”
The pro paganda films that Mor genthau and Jock Whitney were both
pressing him to make, with the lure of their providing joint fina ncing, were
a series that would directly att ack the Nazis and their way of life. That
February Reader ’ s Digest  had published a story titled “Education for
Death” t hat described and lamented the Nazi indoctrination of children. The
next mo nth, after his trip to W ashington, W alt had gone to P leasantville,
New Y ork, the headquarters of the Digest,  t o discuss a film  series that might
be sponsored by the magazine, a nd the editors quickly pushed t he idea of a
film bas ed on “Education for Death.” Jock Whitney took up the cause, and
Mor genthau did  too, though there was disagreement on whether the
government should underwrite the films (in which case W alt felt that
exhibitors would refuse to show them) or whether Reader ’ s Digest  should
underwrite them  (in which case  exhibitors would be more lik ely to show
them but the co ordinator and the T reasury Department would lose control
over the  content). The rights to  “Education for Death” had already been
sold to Paramount, but Whitney was certain he could retrieve them.
Reluctantly W alt Disney crossed the line into propaganda. W ith financing
from the  coordi nator “in the b ackground,” as Roy put it, the  studio put
Education for Death  into production that June. Later that summer , at the
recommendation of producer W alter W anger , who headed up the Motion
Picture Society for the America s, W alt began preparing to animate a short
entitled Reason and Emotion  from a book called W ar Pol itics and  Emotion