# Página 262  
By the spring of 1933, dressed in a tweed jacket, jodhpurs, and high
boots, W alt was ready to play matches at the more rigorous Riviera Country
Club in posh Brentwood, where the movie stars and studio executives like
Zanuck played—an indication of how W alt’ s status if not his polo skills had
risen. Calling themselves the M ickey Mouse team, W alt joined with Roy
and other studio personnel like Norm Fer guson, Dick Lundy , and Gunther
Lessing, but he also played w ith, among others, W ill Rogers, producer
W alter W anger ,  and actors Joh nny Mack Brown, James Gleason, Leslie
Howard, and Spencer T racy , who became one of the “very few people
outside t he immediate family ever invited into the Disney home,” according
to fellow  polo player Bill Cot trell, who was courting Lillian’ s divorced
sister Hazel at the time and thus was almost part of the Dis ney family
himself. Cottrell  believed that T racy was “for a while [the man] whom W alt
considered his best friend,” though he was basically a polo friend, which
testified to how few real attachments W alt had.
Most Su ndays n ow W alt and Lil lian would drive out to Riviera, stopping
to buy a big bag of popcorn on the way , which Lillian would m unch while
she watc hed the matches. By the  end of the year , even though he was only a
middling player—his best handicap was a one-goal rating out o f a possible
ten—he was recruiting ringers to play with him and had begun venturing
throughout California and even Mexico for matches. At the time he had six
ponies of his own and would soon buy a stable of four ponies for Roy ,
eventually supplying horses for those who could not af ford them . “[I]t’ s my
only sin,” he wrote his mother that December . “I don’ t gamble or go out and
spend my money on other peop le’ s wives or anything like that , so I guess
it’ s okay . Anyway , the wife approves of it.”
W alt’ s sudden exuberance over polo, and his athletic regimen generally ,
had not only been a way to kee p his mood buoyant and his health sound.
The doctors had advised both W alt and Lillian that they would have a better
chance of conceiving a child if they exercised more vigorously , and this was
a powerful incentive. Happily , it seemed to have its desired ef fect. In the
summer of 1932 Lillian got pr egnant again, setting of f another wave of
euphoria. W alt immediately bought one and a half acres on W oking W ay , a
narrow , quiet street near the stu dio in the Los Feliz section of L os Angeles