# Página 339  
W alt, in a ruling reminiscent of the switch of Flowers and T r ees  from black-
and-white to color , decided ear ly in 1937 to transform a Silly Symphony
then in production called The Old Mill  from a traditional two-dimensional,
celon-background short into one deploying planes of action like the tests.
It was dif ficult enough to photo graph a cel on a background with a static
camera. Photographing several planes of cels—from foreground to middle
ground to background—while a  camera seemed to move throug h them may
have been the most imposing feat of animation to date. Also seeking to
simulate three-dimensionality , Ub Iwerks had already built a “multiplane”
camera at his own studio ou t of old Chevrolet parts, but  it was so
technically daun ting to use that he deployed it infrequently . W al t was not so
easily dissuaded. For The Old Mill,  wh ich was ess entially a tone poem
about an imals n esting in an aba ndoned mill as a storm approac hes, he had
his machine shop construct its own multiplane camera. It was a huge,
heavy , v ertical box-shaped contraption, standing nearly twelve feet tall on
four metal stanchions with one level at the top for the camera and four
levels or  shelves  below for four layers of animation, and it required at least
four men to operate it—though depending on the dif ficulty of the shot, there
could be  as many as eight men clambering around on it, each cranking his
level one-hundredth of an inch forward to simulate a dolly or left and right
to simul ate a pan. Because each level had to be separately li t—by eight
five-hundred-watt bulbs—and because the multiplane was necessarily
situated in a closed dark room, the heat was unbearable. Moreover , since the
staf f had  no experience with the camera, shooting on The Old Mill  was
painfully slow— more painful to W alt because he wanted to see results as
soon as possible  so that he could use the camera for Snow White,  which was
already deep into animation.
Still, W a lt revered his multiplane, regarding it as the ultimate toy—both a
key to his much-desired realism  and a monument to his own success. “It
was always my ambition to own a swell camera,” he joked to T ime  the week
Snow White  opened, “and now , goddammit, I got one. I get a kick just
watching the boys operate it, an d remembering how I used to have to make
’em out of baling wire.” Of course, it was what the multipla ne did that
made it so impre ssive. As the ca mera seemed to move through the layers or