# Página 533  
being “sold something under pretty high pressure,” and the Communist
Daily W orker ,  which objected that Seversky’ s theories were fantastic and
militated against a second front to aid America’ s Russian ally .
But the most im portant reactio ns were those from the military , which
would have to accept and then  implement Seversky’ s new policy . V ern
Caldwell had screened the film for the navy , which had been so averse to
the project, and wired W alt: “Response enthusiastic.” (W alt was at great
pains in the film to reassure the navy that its missions were still  necessary .)
At the same tim e Henry “Hap” Arnold, the commanding gen eral of the
army air  force and long one of th e country’ s leading advocates of air power ,
saw the film bu t didn’ t convey his reaction—in Caldwell’ s view , because
Arnold, like Seversky , was lobbying for a separate air force and believed
that his approval of the film might have been seen as a “tip-of f.” Still,
Arnold’ s aide asked for a second screening the next day for a  half-dozen
other air  force generals who, Caldwell said, applauded the film despite the
fact that they didn’ t hold Seversky in very high personal regard. Roy and
Caldwell spent the evening with them until three A.M.
By som e accounts, the most important of ficial to see the film that
summer was the commander in c hief himself. Apparently Albert  Lasker had
managed to get a copy to Briti sh prime minister W inston Churchill, who
was so impressed by what he saw he asked that a print to be shipped
overnight to the Quebec Confe rence that August, where he w as meeting
with Roosevelt and where Roose velt not only watched it but asked that it be
screened for the Joint Chiefs of Staf f as well. “I was assured,” Seversky
wrote Elsa Maxwell proudly , “that this strengthened greatly the views of
those who contended that invasion could not be undertaken until control of
the air was achieved.”
W alt had  made V ictory  f or influ ence an d for his own sense of usefulness,
“Whether it makes money or not,” he wrote radio commentator Upton
Close, “I shall b e happy so lon g as it helps stir up the country and starts
people thinking about the importance of real air power ,” thou gh just how
much it really af fected policy was a matter of debate since the government
didn’ t actually deploy the long- range bombing strategy during the war and