# Página 725  
much as 90 pe rcent of what a new cartoon made. Even W arner Bros.
temporarily shu ttered its animation unit in 1953 because it had too many
cartoons in its i nventory . When  it reopened, it never had quite the same
ener gy or flair as it had had in the 1940s.
Beyond economics, the sort of full-bodied personality animation that
W alt Di sney had pioneered and that others had imitated faced another
threat: a  new animation aesthetic. Animator John Hubley , who had worked
at th e Disney st udio before the strike, remembered a Russian cartoon that
architect Frank Lloyd W right had brought to Burbank during a visit. “It was
very modern,” Hubley said, “with flat backgrounds, highly stylized
characters, modern music.” When Hubley and other like-minded animators
left the studio after the strike  and scattered to various com panies, the
modernist aesthetic stuck with them—an early salient in what Hubley , who
went to  Screen Gems, admitted was a “revolution” against the
“characteristic Disney round and opaque forms.”
It wasn’ t until the war that the political and aesthetic revolutionaries
found an instrument to advan ce their cause. As David Hilb erman, the
onetime Disney gadfly , told it, he, another former Disney animator named
Zack Schwartz, and a third anim ator named Stephen Bosustow  formed an
informal partner ship, Industrial Film and Poster Service, to make cartoons
and posters for i ndustry and government. Eventually they lande d a contract
for a film spon sored by the United Auto W orkers to promo te Franklin
Roosevelt’ s reelection in 1944. By the end of the war—with encouragement
from the business manager of the Cartoonists Guild, Bill Pomerance, the
support of some former Disney strikers who had landed in positions of
authority and could steer work to them, and several films underwritten by
unions—the stud io, renamed United Films and then United Pro ductions of
America (UP A), began to attract other former disaf fected Disney animators.
It was a small shop, and it sur vived in its early days only because its
employees were  willing to for go  their salaries. But if it was hard scrabble, it
was also infused with a vision every bit as powerful as the vision that had
infused the old Disney studi o. It was Zack Schwartz, ac cording to
animation histo rian Michael Barrier , who had the revelation that “our