# Página 428  
animator named Oskar Fischinger , who was well known in animation
circles for his abstractions. Though W alt liked Fischinger ’ s work, he wasn’ t
impressed by Fischinger person ally—he was a lar ge, pompous man who
dressed entirely in black—and Fischinger returned the compliment,
complaining that there were “no artists” at the studio, “only cartoonists.”
Jules Engel, another fine artist who had gotten work on Fantasia,  said he
had been warned never to use the word abstract  a t the s tudio because, he
was told , “you’ re going to have people look at you like you’re a strange
character .” In point of fact, wh ile W alt advised the animators to eschew
what he  called “wild abstraction,” he was even more wary of figurative
animation for the section. “Y ou  bring figures in and it gets co mmon,” he
told a story mee ting that August. “W e’re going to sell this thing for five
million dollars and not cheapen it and sell it for peanut s.” Despite
Fischinger ’ s and Engel’ s com plaints that W alt wouldn’ t let go of
representation, t he opposite was in fact true. In “T occata and Fugue” W alt
was not trying to actualize his c onscious vision, as he had done with Snow
White  and Pinocchio ; he wan ted to plumb his psyche. “This is more or less
picturing subconscious things f or you,” he told his staf f after describing
how the  music seemed to come  to him “through the skin.” “It’ s a flash of
color go ing through a scene, or movement of a lot of indefinite  things. It’ s
the nearest I can come to giving a reason for abstract things.”
He took  the same approach to “The Nutcracker Suite.” He was looking
for something that felt as if it h ad been dreamed. “It’ s like som ething you
see with your e yes half-closed,” he told his staf f, waxing p oetic. “Y ou
almost imagine them. The leaves begin to look like they’re dancing, and the
blossoms floatin g on the water  begin to look like ballet girls in skirts.”
Sometimes at the story meetings  he would play the music and just have the
staf f list en so they could discover what impressions it evoked in them. He
always wanted more imaginati on. His fear was never that the animation
would be too ar tful or esoteric for his audience. His fear was that he was
determined to do so much in Fantasia  he would overwhelm them.
“[T]here’ s a theory I go on that an audience is always th rilled with
something new ,” he said at a story meeting, “but fire too many  new things
at them and they become restless.” At another meeting he advised that
“things must be big, impressive but simple. Not too much stuf f in there.”