# Página 130  
go-getting impu lse to succeed, which could be certified by money and
recognition, and the deeper psychological impulse to control, which could
be satisfied only by making his  films exactly as he wanted to make them
without interference. While finally prodding Mintz into sweetening the
contract terms slightly—in addi tion to the $1,500, W alt was now to receive
$350 for  each film of gross rece ipts over $4,000 and a fifty-fifty split after
that, jus t as the current contract had stipulated—he added a new clause of
his own that indicated just how much he had been chafing at Mintz’ s
aesthetic demands and criticisms and just how much the flare-up with Mintz
may hav e been about power all along: that “all matters regarding making of
comedies are to be left to me .” W alt may have been bluf fing over the
money , trying to force Mintz’ s  hand, but was not bluf fing about control.
There w as little sense in creating  an alternative world to escape to if one did
not shap e and command that w orld. When Mintz derisively rejected this
demand, W alt broke of f their n egotiations and expressed his regrets that
their partnership would soon end.
Meanwhile W alt found himself  in another quarrel—this one with the
Davises. T o cut costs that summer , W alt had proposed that he p ay V ir ginia
only for the time  that she was actually used—at a rate of twenty -five dollars
per day . Since she had worked  only roughly eighteen days the previous
year , thi s would  have amounted to a tremendous saving for the D isneys and
a tremen dous loss for the Davis es. Understandably the Davises erupted at
the s uggestion, ripping W alt and  accusing Geor ge W inkler of ha ving angled
to get rid of V ir ginia all along so that he could sign the daughter of a friend.
W alt did  not want to jettison V ir ginia now that she was so closely identified
with the  series, but the focus w as increasingly on the animation, not on
Alice, and financial pressures an d pressures from Mintz forced him to sign
another girl, Dawn O’Day , who appeared in only one film, and then four -
year -old Mar gie Gay , both at the twenty-five-dollar -a-day rate . Gay , who
had a short dark pageboy where  V ir ginia had long golden curls, and a round
baby face where V ir ginia’ s fa ce was preternaturally mature, brought a
dif ferent quality  to the series. “V ir ginia Davis had had somethin g of a post-
V ictorian image —her appeal was that of a juvenile Lillian Gish, ” wrote one
animation historian, “—whereas Mar gie Gay was more of the fl apper type.”
But V ir g inia Davis had a dif fer ent interpretation of what distinguished her