# Página 9  
nameplates on the seats, then watched a film of Disney sitting at his desk
and eerily pointing to and addressing each of them on future plans. He
concluded by smiling knowingly and saying that he would be seeing them
soon.
In truth , Disney’ s final destination was fire, not ice; he had been
cremated and his ashes interred in a mausoleum in a remote c orner of the
Forest L awn Cemetery in Glendale, California, not far from his  studio. But
the persistence of the rumor , however outlandish, testified not only to the
identification of  Disney with fu turistic technology late in his l ife but to a
public u nwillingness to let go o f him, even to the point of my thologizing
him as an immo rtal who could n ot be felled by natural forces. Ar guably no
single fi gure so bestrode American popular culture as W alt Dis ney . By one
estimate, in 1966 alone, the year of his death, 240 million people saw a
Disney movie, a weekly aud ience of 100 million watched a Disney
television show , 80 million read a Disney book, 50 million listened to
Disney r ecords, 80 million bought Disney merchandise, 150 million read a
Disney c omic st rip, 80 million s aw a Disney educational film, a nd nearly 7
million visited Disneyland. By another estimate, during his lifetime
Disney’ s live-ac tion films grossed nearly $300 million and the feature
animations just under $100 million, when these were astronomical figures,
and more than 60 million peo ple had visited Disneyland. The Satur day
Evening Post  onc e called him the “world’ s most celebrated entertainer and
possibly its best known non-political public figure,” and The New Y ork
T imes  e ulogiz ed him as “probably the only man to have been prais ed by
both the American Legion and the Soviet Union.”
But W al t Disney’ s influence cannot be measured by numbers or encomia.
It can only be measured by how thoroughly he reshaped the cul ture and the
American consc iousness. Disney was protean. In the late 1920s he began
reinventing animation, gradually turning it from a novelty that emphasized
movement and elasticity of line into an art form that emphasized character ,
narrative, and emotion. In doing  so, he also helped reinvent graphic design
by introducing the soft, round, bold, colorful forms that decades  later would
be adop ted and  adapted by a vanguard of fine artists. The critic Robert
Hughes credited  him with inven ting Pop Art itself, not only in the look he