# Página 176  
Fleming, his “long arms flailing  the air ,” exclaimed, “Man, you’ve got it!
Damnedest best  cartoon I’ve e ver seen!” Marion said that W alt had also
brought along a second cartoon,  a Silly Symphony , which in her description
sounded like Springtime,  th ough this is u nlikely since the cartoon had yet to
be drawn, and th at the group was just as enthusiastic about it—so much so
that Ma rion immediately headed to the of fice of Metro hea d Louis B.
Mayer to drag him down to the projection room.
Mayer , however , was not impressed. W atching the Symphony , he pushed
a button to stop the projector , pronounced the cartoon “ridiculous,” and
groused that while men and w omen dance together , and boys and girls
dance together , flowers  do not dance together . When Mayer rose to leave,
Fleming eased him back into his chair and advised he see the Mickey
Mouse. No sooner did the film start, however , than Mayer let o ut a bellow
and dem anded that the cartoon b e stopped. Driving his fist into the pit of his
stomach, he declared that pregn ant women go to see MGM films and that
women are terrified of mice, esp ecially a mouse ten feet tall on the motion
picture screen. Mayer stormed o ut of the room, slamming the door behind
him, while W alt stood there in embarrassment.
It was Columbia that provided him with a reprieve. Frank Capra, a
Sicilian immigra nt who had worked his way from writing gags for silent
comedy producer Mack Sennett to becoming Columbia’ s leading director ,
had been prevailed upon by the studio’ s lab technician to watch a cartoon
one night after Capra screened t he rushes of his own film. Capra was tired
and unenthusias tic about the prospect, and he was even less enthused when
the lab technician introduced him to W alt—a “scrawny , nondescript,
hungry-looking young man, w earing two days’ growth of beard and a
slouch c ap.” Bu t when the carto on hit the screen, Capra was entranced and
insisted that Columbia head Ha rry Cohn see it. Cohn, who also grumbled
about having to see a cartoon, turned out to be equally impressed.
Columbia, not a major studio but an aspiring one, was willing to take on the
cartoons.
Powers was amenable since he would be getting the bulk of the  receipts.
That Au gust, af ter the successful showings of The Skeleton Dance  at the