# Página 78  
Not until 1910, w hen W insor McCay originated a vaudeville act  in which
he ( on s tage) in teracted with his animations (on screen), did the quality of
the draw ing dramatically improve and the integrity of the dr awing as a
separate reality rather than a trick become established. McCay had been an
illustrator and cartoonist for the  Cincinnati Commer cial T ribune  and then
the Enquir er  bef ore defecting to the New Y ork Herald and Evening
T elegram,  wh ere he created several com ic strips, most famously “Little
Nemo in  Slumberland,” which brought him national fame and a vaudeville
contract. Inspire d by a “flip book” that his son brought home, in which
rif fling t he page s set figures in motion, he converted “Nemo” into a short
animation to be shown during his act. By the time he made his second film,
How a Mosquit o Operates,  in 1912, he was declaring animation a “new
school of art that will revolutionize the entire field,” and when he drew
“Gertie the Dinosaur” two ye ars later , also for his vaudeville act, he
accelerated that  revolution by laying, in the words of one  animation
historian, the “foundations of character animation,  th e art of delin eating a
character ’ s personality through a unique style of movement.”
Where McCay led, many illustrators and cartoonists followed, until
animation gradually emer ged as  a new film genre emphasizing characters
rather than magic. Late in 1914 or early 1915 a French-Canadian illustrator
named R aoul Barré and a longt ime magazine and newspaper artist named
John Ra ndolph Bray opened the first animation studios in New  Y ork, and
within a  few years they had at l east a dozen rivals there hoping to reap the
profits of this n ovelty . For these pioneers the primary challen ge was not
artistic; it was technical. McCay , making only two-minute films, drew each
of the roughly four thousand pictures his animations required on a separate
sheet of paper w ith both character and background included a nd then had
each on e of them photographed. (His sole ef ficiency was in tracing the
backgrounds.) But this was hopelessly time-consuming if one intended to
produce animat ions of any len gth and in any quantity . As a matter of
economizing, th e goal was to separate the moving characters in the
foreground, which had to be co ntinuously redrawn, from the background,
which did not move and thus could be drawn just once. Bray  devised an
alternative system to McCay’ s in which he printed multiple copies of the
background and  then removed those parts that would be obscured by the