# Página 162  
record the scores. Powers agreed  to foot the bill for the recording so long as
W alt pai d the other costs. W alt saw this as a lifesaver . “I didn’ t t ell him how
bad we needed his help,” he wrote Lilly .
Again, he was i n dire financial straits. Between the musicians’  fees and
Stalling’ s salary , W alt estimate d that he would need another $1,200 to
$1,500 f or the recording session, on top of the nearly $6,000 he had already
spent on the trip. Several weeks earlier the brothers had taken out a second
mortgage on their L yric A venue homes, which pumped another $4,000 into
the c ompany , but most of that was now depleted. W alt ur ged Lil lian to have
Roy tak e out an additional loan against their property and “dig up all the
spare cash he c an.” It was a sign of just how the financial  noose had
tightened that W alt finally instructed Roy to sell the beloved Moon roadster
with its red and  green running lights and its folding top—the c ar in which
W alt had courted Lillian.
But afte r nearly  two months in  New Y ork, two months away from the
studio and his home and Lillian, and after all the financial maneuvering,
and after even the ef forts of P at Powers, W alt had four Mic key Mouse
sound cartoons and still  had no company  to distribute them. He was running
out of money . H e was running o ut of time. He was running out of patience.
He was even beginning to run out of confidence.  
Then came Harry Reichenbach . Reichenbach, forty-four and prematurely
silver -haired at the time he met W alt, looked like a diplomat, w hich belied
the f act that he was actually a self-professed ballyhoo artist and proud of it.
Born in Frostbu r g, Maryland, in the foothills of the Allegheny Mountains,
where h e was raised on “nickel thrillers” and dreams of the la r ger world,
Reichenbach ran of f with a carnival as a boy and became a performer there,
then worked as a magician’ s assistant before leaving the stage and entering
the nascent profession of press agentry . Brazenly duplicitous, he was soon a
legend. As he on ce boasted of h is exploits, “I took a young man who could
wear plaited pants and in three weeks made him America’ s matinee idol. I
changed the name of Michigan  A venue to Dream Street by popular vote,