# Página 302  
of moving parts. He was so admired that after he left the studio  for the day
young animator s would race to  his of fice to pluck his discarded drawings
from the wastebasket.
At the same time that he was signing veterans, W alt, with his ur gent
manpower needs, was also collecting a group of malleable youn g guns who
had eith er been recommended  to him or had worn him down through
persistence; they would in time become both the main proponents of the
Disney style and the bulwarks of the studio. As animator Ham Luske put it,
W alt had  imported these New Y o rk animators and “the idea was  like a chain
letter—every animator needed ten assistants and dozens of in-betweeners.”
So they came. Born in Germany , W olfgang Reitherman, known as
“W oolie,” was the last of seven children of a bottled-water plant owner who
brought his family to Kansas City to escape what he called “political
unrest” and then to Sierra Madre, California, for the climate when one of
his daughters contracted tuberculosis. After attending junior college and
dabbling in art, Reitherman was  working at the Douglas Aircra ft Company
—tall, la nky , an d handsome in t he Lindber gh mold, he dreamed of being an
airman—when h e lost hope an d suddenly decided to go to art school at
Chouinard instea d. One of his instructors there was Phil Dike, who assisted
Don Gra ham at the studio. Dik e suggested that Reitherman, then twenty-
four , app ly for a job at Disney , w here he began work in June 1933, gaining
a reputation, W alt would say , as the “kind of guy you give him a tough
assignment and he smiles…He’ s  [got] an ability to take masses—big, bulky
things.”
Eric Lar son was  the son of Danish immigrants who had settled  in Utah.
Larson attended  the University o f Utah majoring in journalism u ntil a prank
—some fellow students broke into his of fice at the college humor magazine
and one of them  fell through a skylight and died—led him to f ind a job in
Los Angeles at a  firm that designed yearbooks. He stayed for six years, the
last few as art di rector . When he got married in 1933 and needed  to increase
his income, he d ecided to write a radio script for station KHJ, w hich steered
him to one of its  former employees, Dick Creedon, for some tips on how to
improve his radio play . Creedon, who was now working for Disney ,
suggested that Larson apply for work there since W alt was about to expand