# Página 689  
all that stuf f, he wasn’ t thinking about our pictures. He was thinking about
Disneyland.”
He was always  thinking about Disneyland. In September 1953, as soon as
he had confirmed the deal on the Anaheim property , he asked Marvin Davis
to d raw up new  plans for th e much lar ger park, and Dav is, working
frantically , woul d turn in a new plan every two or three days. A visitor to
WED th e following year , as the  plans were firming up, described wading
“through a fascinating jumble of miniature worlds—the frontier and of the
past, the  rocket space world o f the future, the never -never fantasyland
where the fairy tale and the Disney characters all live together happily ever
after . Maps covered the walls, t ables overflowed with contour models and
scale drawings, and the floors of the studios, shops and hallways were knee-
deep in models of old-time lo comotives, paddlewheel boats, W ild W est
saloons, Sleeping Beauty Castles and gleaming, jet-propelled spaceships to
the moo n which  looked quite c apable of making it. This was  the chaotic
chrysalis of ‘Disneyland.’”
W alt was collecting still more ideas, more data, more suggestions. In
June 1954, after signing the ABC contract, he sent a four -man expedition
headed by Bill Cottrell on another information-gathering junket to
amusement park s, museums, even arcades and shooting galleries, across the
country , and he sent another re presentative to the Playland Park in R ye,
New Y ork, just to count the patrons. He had also hired as a dvisers two
longtime amusement park operators, Geor ge Whitney , who ra n the Clif f
House in  San Francisco, and Ed Schott, who ran the Coney Isl and Park in
Cincinnati. “While we were planning Disneyland, every amusement park
operator we talked to said it wo uld fail,” John Hench recalled. “And W alt
would come out of those me etings even happier than if t hey’d been
optimistic.”
He loved the fi ght now that he had something to fight for , loved the
hurdles he had to leap, loved the idea that he had to prove himself right
again, an d he talked of waging the same old battles that he once  had had to
wage in making the animation f eatures. W ith the exception of his advisers,
he didn’ t want anyone on the staf f who had amusement park experience