# Página 79  
action, either by scratching them  of f or blanking them out. Barré, realizing
that the background and action  did not have to be put on the same sheet
since the camera could combine them in a single frame, invented what came
to be called the “slash and tea r” method of animation because he would
place the background on one sheet and then tear holes in it to reveal the
action on a second sheet laid beneath the first. But it was another old
newspaper carto onist-turned-animator , Earl Hurd, who most successfully
solved the problem by drawi ng the moving characters on sheets of
translucent pape r , later transparent celluloid, and placing them over a
second s heet on which the bac kground was painted, eliminating the need
for tearing holes.* This gave rise to the term cel  to refer to the individual
celluloid sheets with their anim ation drawings. It was so ef ficie nt a system
that it would re main the basic animation technique for more than eighty
years, or until th e rise of comp uter -generated images in the late twentieth
century .
But if cel anima tion made animating much easier , it did not, it tu rned out,
make it any mo re artistic. Drawings and movement were rudimentary , in
part because animators had to fe el their way along a trail that h ad yet to be
blazed. M ost of them were eager young print cartoonists like W alt who had
no training in animating figures; at best they studied books—there were a
handful of them in the postwar  period—that purported to explain how to
make pictures move. “Animators were scarce,” Grim Natwick, an early
cartoonist, recal led. “There was no one to tell them how to do it. They
sharpened a fist full of pencils , sat down at a drawing board and started
animating.”
And what was true of the drawing was equally true of the stories the
drawings told. Based primarily on familiar comic strips, early  animations
had no more narrative refinement than a day’ s installment of those strips—
no r eal attempt to tell a story , much less create an arc. Usuall y when the
animators began  drawing, they did not even have any narrative master plan
to follow . “The  scenario would probably be on a single sheet of paper ,”
Dick Hu emer , a n animator who had worked at Barré’ s studio back in 1916,
said, “w ithout a ny models, sketches, or anything; you made i t up as you
went along.” Some twenty year s after the introduction of animation, it was