# Página 114  
So they began. Usually W alt wo uld take V ir ginia to the vacant lot, drape a
white tarpaulin over a billboard there for a backdrop, and shout instructions
to her: “Look frightened!” or “Sit down and pretend you’re mad.” That was,
V ir ginia said, his favorite instruction: Let’ s pr etend.  There were no real
rehearsals and no more than a single take since W alt did not h ave enough
film to reshoot. “It was very info rmal,” V ir ginia Davis recalled. “During the
silent days we would have a lot of the curious children and the neighbors
come ar ound to  watch what was going on.” More often than not, it was
catch-as-catch-can, filming whenever he could, wherever he could. Once
W alt wa s shooti ng in Grif fith P ark when he was stopped by a policeman
who asked to s ee a permit. W alt didn’ t have one, so he packed up his
equipment, only  to sneak back through another entrance. Every time he
spotted a policeman that afternoon, he would stop shooting, pack up again,
and move.
While he shot the film of Alice, W alt had a hood over the camera and
would m entally trace the position of the cartoon characters with whom the
girl wou ld be interacting. Then back in the Kingswell of fice he would run
the film frame b y frame so that he could animate the figures in what would
be the white sp aces around Alice—white because of the white tarpaulin.
Using his camera stand, he wou ld shoot the animations. Finally , he would
combine the film of Alice and th e animations in the development process so
that they  appeared to be in the same place—the real girl and her cartoon
playmates.
Though he animated it alone—he animated the first six Alices virtually
by himself—he nevertheless delivered Alice’ s Day at the Sea  on December
26, a head of the  contractual schedule, and received his first $1 ,500 check.
He knew  the film wasn’ t especially good, and W inkler , who had been so
lavish in  her predictions of success, did not disagree. She called it only
“satisfactory” and thought there was room for improvement, though she
tempered her criticism by telling W alt that “the progress I have made in the
film industry has been due to the fact that I know just what  my people
want,” and she s aid her requests were made in that spirit. T wo weeks later
she sent another letter enjoinin g W alt to “inject as much humor as you
possibly can” into the next c artoon, adding that “[h]umor is the first