# Página 23  
reconnaissance trip to Lake County , in the middle of Florida, where the
neighbors had relatives. Elias went with him.
For Elia s, Florida held another i nducement besides the promise of warm
weather and new opportunities. The neighbor family they had ac companied,
the Call s, had a sixteen-year -old  daughter named Flora. The Calls, like the
Disneys, were pioneers who nevertheless disdained the hardscrabble life.
Their an cestors had arrived in America from England in 1636, settling first
outside Boston and then moving to upstate New Y ork. In 1825 Flora’ s
grandfather , Eber Call, reportedly to escape hostile Indians  and bone-
chilling cold, left with his wife and three children for Huron County in
Ohio, w here he cleared several acres and farmed. But Eber Call, like
Kepple Disney ,  had higher aspirations. T wo of his daughters became
teachers, and his son, Charles, w as graduated from Oberlin College in 1847
with hig h honor s. After heading to California to find gold and t hen drifting
through the W est for several years, Charles wound up outside Des Moines,
Iowa, where he met Henrietta G ross, a German immigrant. They married on
September 9, 1855, and return ed to his father ’ s house in Ohio. Charles
became a teacher .
Exactly why at the age of fifty-six he decided to leave Ohio in  January
1879, after roughly twenty years there and ten children, is a mystery , though
a da ughter later claimed it was because he was fearful that one of his eight
girls mi ght mar ry into a neighb or family with eight sons, non e of whom
were sober enough for the devout teacher . Why he chose to become a
farmer is equally mysterious, and why he chose Ellis, Kans as, is more
mysterious still. The rough-hewn  frontier town was nothing like  the tranquil
Ohio village he had left, and it had little to of fer save for chea p land. But
Ellis proved no more hospitabl e to the Calls than it had to the Disneys.
W ithin a  year the family had begun to scatter . Flora, scarcely i n her teens,
was sent to nor mal school in Ellsworth to be trained as a teacher , and
apparently roomed with Albertha Disney , Elias’ s sister , though it is likely he
had already taken notice of her since the families’ farms were only two
miles from each other .