# Página 562  
pocked with holes that the animators had drilled to see the floor below . The
flimsy walls were made of com position board, which the animators would
punch their fists through and which one of them once tried to light just to
see if it would burn. Even Leo n Schlesinger , the head of the department,
who vis ited wee kly to deliver c hecks, would comment, “Pew , let me outta
here! This looks like a shit house.”
Befitting its of fice, the animations produced at W arner Bros. were
equally unprepo ssessing. As Friz Freleng, who had worked for Disney on
the A lice comedies, put it, “W alt spent more on the storyboards than we did
on the films.” Where W alt’ s extensive crews included as man y as a half-
dozen w riters an d gagmen on a short, at W arner Bros. a cartoon started with
a single director , a single writer , and a single layout man. The d irector was
assigned four animators, each of whom was assigned an assistant. There
were fou r units in all. Animators were expected to turn out tw enty-five to
thirty fe et of animation per week or twenty seconds of screen time, much
more than at Disney , which may have added to the already antic sense.
The studio chiefs were also a study in contrasts. Schlesinger was a small,
round, pompous  man who, said one animator , “always smelled of Parma
V iolet” and “dressed like a vaudeville hoofer who had suddenly come into
money .” Though he tried to mai ntain his dignity , he spoke with  a thick lisp
that was later im mortalized in the voice of W arner Bros. char acter Daf fy
Duck. S chlesinger never recog nized the af finity , leaping to his feet and
saying, “Jeethus Christh, that’ s a funny voice! Where’d you get that
voithe?” after he saw the first Daf fy short. And if his demeanor was the
antithesis of W alt Disney’ s unaf fected midwestern style, so was his attitude
toward his animations. “[H]is wallet spoke” was how Frank T ashlin put it.
Even wi th Schlesinger ’ s eye fixed securely on the bottom line, W arners
was at first as much a Disney imitator as the other studios and just as
unsuccessful at it. Then T ex A very joined the department in 1936. As A very
later remembered it, Schlesinger told him that he had some boys—“they’re
not rene gades bu t they just don’ t get on with the other two crews”—and he
suggested that A very work with them. Among these unsociables were two
young animator s named Bob Clampett and Chuck Jones. The teaming of