# Página 142  
But of course ev erything was not okay . W alt and Lillian had lunch at the
Hotel A stor as guests of Mintz and Mar garet W inkler the next day , Friday ,
March 2 , where Mintz refused to discuss business, but “from what remarks
were dropped,” W alt wrote Roy , “I could see that he had something up his
sleeve.” After Mintz suggested they meet in his of fice the next morning,
W alt wi red Roy frantically to get the contracts with the staf f signed
immediately les t Mintz or Geor g e W inkler get wind of the plan and prof fer
contracts of their own. “MAKE THEM  SIGN OR KNOW REASON
BEFORE ALLOWING THEM T O LEA VE,”  W alt telegraphed Roy with
the new  imperiousness that had alienated the staf f. When Roy  wired back
that the staf f had refused to sign the contracts, Iwerks’ s warning to W alt was
finally confirme d: since jobs for animators were scarce and the men should
have jum ped at W alt’ s of fer , he realized that Mintz and Geor ge W inkler had
indeed c ontracted with the staf f behind his back. In fact, W alt w as told that
Mintz had been talking to a n animator—referring no do ubt to the
conversation with Harman—to take over the operation under Geor ge
W inkler ’ s supervision. W alt had  suf fered two heavy blows. He had become
expendable at his own company , and his own employees had betrayed him.
W alt pretended to be sanguine. “CAN GET PLENTY OF GOO D MEN,”
he wired  Roy confidently later that morning after visiting the  Krazy Kat
studio, where the staf f “treated me royal.” But he spent the rest of a very
long and  freneti c day meeting with Bill Nolan, who had been one of the
leading animato rs on Krazy Kat  for Mintz and whom W alt had been seeing
in New Y ork in an attempt to lur e him to California; with Metro, which told
him yet again th at it had decided  not to release any cartoons that year; with
Fox, which said it would not handle any cartoons that it did not produce
itself; and with his advisor Alic oate, who told him discouragingly that the
entire in dustry w as now “topsy turvy” and that it would be a nother year
before th ings se ttled. Finally he met again with Mintz, bluf fing  that he had
already received two unsolicited  of fers but that he preferred working out a
deal with his old  partner . Mintz, however , was having none of it, raising his
of fer only slightly to $1,750 per cartoon plus 50 percent of the profits. W alt
was so frighten ed and desperate that he said he would take the of fer if
Mintz w ould produce the contract immediately . Mintz said he c ould not do
so and cagily told W alt that he should take one of the better deals he had