# Página 230  
wrote his parents in 1932. “W e have been doing our own gambling. This
past three years will be a very good lesson to the people at lar g e,” meaning
apparently that others would have to learn to invest in themselves as well.
But if the Depression did not a f fect W alt economically , it was in many
ways replicated in his own emotional depression. Just as the nation could
not escape the economic buf fets, W alt could not secure his fantasy world
against the assaults of the real world, could not, in fact, mak e it perfect
enough or impregnable enough, which led to his breakdown. H is first plan,
when hi s doctor told him he had to leave the studio, was to take an ocean
trip to Seattle an d then visit his parents in Portland and Lillian’ s  relatives in
Idaho. His second plan was to sail to Hawaii, and he booked passage for
himself and Lillian on a cruise  ship. In the event, though, he and Lillian
acted impulsivel y , canceling the Hawaii trip and booking passag e on a boat
from Havana through the Panama Canal, then picking up traveler ’ s checks
and hopping a train to St. Lou is, where they hoped to catch a riverboat
down th e Missi ssippi River , just as W alt and his old friend R ussell Maas
had intended to do when W alt returned from France in 1919. From their
disembarkation point they planned to get to Key W est and rendezvous with
the b oat to Cuba. As it turned o ut, there were no longer riverb oats on the
Mississippi, only bar ges, so the couple improvised again, taking a train to
W ashington, D.C ., staying three days at the Mayflower Hotel, visiting the
monuments and strolling aimles sly through the parks, or just sitting on the
benches feeding the pigeons. Then they trained to Key W est and caught
their tug to Hav ana, where they spent the next week lounging at the Hotel
Nacional and taking excursions to the countryside before heading home via
the canal, as pla nned. Their two New Y ork visits having ended in disaster , it
was their first real vacation in six years of marriage. W alt said that he and
Lillian had the “time of our life” because he had reached the point where “I
didn’ t give a darn.” He felt he had been liberated from the bu rden of his
own perfectionism.
He retur ned to the studio look ing, according to Geor ge Morris, “very
much re sted,” but he was, he told Morris, “still nervous and sure  would like
to g et away for a couple of w eeks more.” Instead, he dove into a new
regimen—outside the studio. Th e breakdown, he said, “woke m e up to the