# Página 479  
animated cartoo n was deserving of a better place; that it was m ore than a
mere ‘filler ’ on a program; that it was more than a novelty; tha t it could be
one of the great est mediums of fantasy and entertainment yet developed.”
That conviction had guided his life and often driven him into poverty . Y et
he persi sted, ref using to cut sal aries when every other studio h ad done so
and even distributing the bonuses so that he could keep his staf f intact and
contented. He took virtually nothing for himself, even voluntarily taking a
75 p ercent cut i n his own salary  when the foreign markets dried up. There
were, he said, three options now : cut salaries drastically , cut pro duction and
lay o f f w orkers, or sell the company to someone who was intere sted only in
profits. He was resisting all o f these, preferring instead to economize
through smaller salary cuts and budget reductions. W ould they agree?
Addressing the personal grievances, W alt denied that a clas s system
existed at the studio. Creative st af f got certain advantages over the business
staf f because, he said, they contributed more, but the Penthouse Club was
now open to everyone. T o those who complained of a new police presence
on the lot, presumably to stop union or ganizing, W alt insisted it was
necessitated by insurance. Of t he rumor that he was training  low-priced
girls to take ove r cleanup animation, he said the studio needed  flexibility ,
particularly with  the prospect of war . And of the complaints that he was no
longer a vailable and that he dele gated too much authority , he sa id, “It’ s my
nature to be democratic,” but he  came to realize that “it was very dangerous
and unfair to t he or ganization  as a whole for me to get too close to
everybody” beca use it rewarded the “apple-polishers” at the expense of the
hardworking men. Moreover , he said that he didn’ t want the studio to be a
one-man operat ion. It had to survive him so that the animated cartoon
would su rvive. A nd he closed b y invoking once again the studi o’ s sense of
mission: “Belie ve me when I say that if we should go out of business
tomorrow , the animated cartoon  would drop to a low commercial level.”
Quality was still the primary go al, and the best animators would still be the
ones best rewarded. “Don’ t for get this—it’ s the law of the universe that the
strong s hall surv ive and the we ak must fall by the way , and I don’ t give a
damn what idealistic plan is cooked up, nothing can change that.” Each of
the two speeche s lasted nearly three hours, and W alt said nothing about
unions in either one.