# Página 756  
in Ju ne 1 960, he nervously phon ed W alt one last time for his inp ut, but W alt
demurred. “[D]o what you think’ s necessary ,” he said. So W alt Disney
Productions, with a loan from Prudential, bought ABC out of Disneyland.
In the agreemen t Roy dropped his suit, ABC released the studio from its
contract, and the Disneys promised to refrain for four months from pursuing
another televisi on outlet. As c ollateral damage, Zorr o  and The Mickey
Mouse Club  were canceled.
But eve n before the four -month moratorium was up, the company was
negotiating for a new home for W alt Disney Pr esents.  Rob ert Kintner , with
whom W alt had made his original television deal, had left ABC for the
presidency of NBC, and as early as August, Card W alker was meeting in
New Y o rk with Kintner and Robert Sarnof f, the chairman of RCA, NBC’ s
parent c ompany , about relocatin g. Though NBC said it needed to evaluate
the pos sibility of a long-term association with Disney , the network
promised not to let the discussio ns “drift” as they had six years e arlier when
W alt had approached them. W alt, who was in London at the time, told
W alker to “get this deal,” emphasizing how important it was to him. “I’ll
stand on my head in Macy’ s window ,” he said, “if that will make the deal.”
For both  W alt and NBC, the ur gency didn’ t come simply from the need
to pu t a new tele vision show on the air . The stakes were much higher . RCA
was now manufacturing color television sets, and the company was looking
for flagship programming that would promote the infant technology , which
was why  NBC was subjecting the proposed partnership to such extended
deliberations. W alt Disney’ s colorful animations seemed a perfect vehicle.
As far as the D isneys were concerned, W alt, who had pioneered color on
the moti on picture screen, had always wanted to produce color television
programming. It was virtually inevitable, then, that the two sides would
come to an agr eement, which they did that October: three years at $5
million per year for twenty-five installments each year of W alt Disney
Pr esents,  which was to be renamed W alt Disney’ s W onderful W orld of Color .
V ariety  called the agree ment the “most important and far -reaching in recent
video annals.”