# Página 754  
“cute as hell,” an d when he was angry , he could, according to on e employee
at the time, “out-cuss a drunken pirate’ s parrot!”
Many o f those who saw him now seemed to detect a lack of intensity ,
which o ne coul d recognize in his eyes. The young W alt Disney had had
“burning dark eyes,” as one reporter described them—eyes “so dark brown
in co lor that they seemed black ,” wrote another . Even Roy ha d described
how W alt’ s eyes would latch on to his listener ’ s and wouldn’ t let go. But the
older W alt Disne y’ s eyes weren’ t so much dark and penetrating as “bright,”
according to Mary Costa, who voiced Sleeping Beauty , as if they were
“plugged into sockets.” Actress  Julie Andrews said there was a “kind of
cheerful merriment in his eyes,” the sign of a contented man.
But whi le W alt Disney at long last may have seemed contented and at
ease wit h himse lf, underneath he smoldered. One visiting journalist noticed
that W al t “appeared to be unde r the lash of some private demon.” He had
never fully trusted success or tra nquillity . “I function better when things are
going badly than when they’re smooth as whipped cream,” he  would say ,
underscoring the  irony that the man whose life was dedicated to perfection
was never entirely happy within it. W alt Disney always needed action, even
friction. “I’ve got to have a proj ect all the time,” he had told Ollie Johnston,
“something to work on.” Other wise he had no place to direct his nervous
ener gy .
Among the projects to which he directed his attention as the new decade
dawned was television. Even be fore W alt re-signed with ABC, the network
had been complaining about the cost of producing The Mickey Mouse Club
and abo ut the fact that, as ABC president Robert Kintner put i t, “there are
only a certain number of sponsors that will sponsor a so-called ‘kid’ show ,
and they  have only a certain amount in their budgets.” Mean while W alt
bristled over the paltry budget t hat ABC had dedicated to promoting Zorr o
and to the constant pressure he felt from ABC to produce W est erns, which
the network obviously believed would be profitable. W alt aquiesced—he
made T exas John Slaughter  and The Nin e Lives of Elfego Baca —but he was
so unha ppy abo ut it that he lar gely ceased to care. Publicity  chief Card
W alker had to beg W alt for “ approximately one hour of your time” to