# Página 524  
and W alt’ s plans to release the film as a roadshow attr action with
Fantasound had to be dropped. A Gallup survey commissioned by the
studio found that “ready-made viewership is low” and the “want-to-see”
was the lowest o f all the films on the survey’ s index. Responden ts said they
“don’ t li ke full-length cartoons,” that they considered them “childish” and
that they expected it to be a “jungle picture.” The only hope, reported
Gallup, was to sell the film as “tomorrow’ s classic” and get testimonials
from famous individuals. Meanwhile Roy wrote W alt that “ BAMBI  deals
are coming in slowly ,” in par t because the market was crowded with
pictures, in part because the recent Disney films had been disappointing,
and in part because the Disneys’ distributor , RKO, had seemed to lose faith
in them,  though  Roy still belie ved that the film would return its negative
cost and might even turn a profit.
The wh ole project now seemed shrouded in gloom. That May , Frank
Churchill, the frail, doleful, alcoholic composer who had written the scores
for Snow White  and Bambi,  committed suicide with a shotgun. Always
sorrowful and sensitive, he had  no doubt been further depresse d by W alt’ s
ongoing dissatis faction with his work on Bambi.  (Churchill had written a
great score for the “musical circle of Hollywood,” W alt griped, but one that
was monotonou s and did not provide the excitement the mov ie needed.)
Churchill’ s last request was that “Love Is a Song,” which he had  written for
Bambi,  b e dedicated to  his wife, Carolyn, who had been W alt’ s pers onal
secretary from June 1930 to January 1934, when she married Churchill. But
even that was denied since the song had already gone to the publisher .
When it was finally released in August 1942, critics received Bambi
almost as if it were an afterthought, which is what it had become, and the
realism that W alt had striven s o hard over so many years to achieve, the
realism that had caused him so much grief, was seen not as an  advance of
the anim ation art but as a decline. “In his search for perfection, Mr . Disney
has com e perilously close to tossing away his whole world  of cartoon
fantasy ,” The Ne w Y ork  T imes  observed in what would become an
increasingly common complaint against Disney . Critic Man ny Farber ,
calling Bambi  “entirely unpleasant,” agreed that by attempting to “ape the
trumped up realism of flesh and blood movies, he [Disney] has given up