# Página 781  
W right’ s warnin g to W alt, W alt , apparently tiring of the dispute  and the ill
will it had engendered, advised Cottrell to get the matter settled.
Roy was  appare ntly of the same  conciliatory mind. As Cottrell would tell
it to  Thomas, Ro y walked in on his negotiators in the conferenc e room next
to his of fice during a particularly heated exchange and said, “None of us
would be here i n these of fices i f it hadn’ t been for W alt. All your jobs, all
the b enefits you have, all came from W alt and his contributions.” When the
negotiations were concluded tha t April, the studio had reluctantly agreed to
a new seven-year personal services contract that would award W alt $3,500 a
week, u p $500 from his previous contract, and $1,666 a week in deferred
payments—in ad dition to the percentages on the profits, but not the grosses,
of the pictures in which he personally invested. W alt had gotten most of
what he wanted. At the same tim e WDP also agreed to a new contract with
WED at  $1,500 a week for its d esign services and agreed to pay  another 20
percent of the payroll costs of  any personnel WED had at Disneyland,
which was now wholly owned  by WDP . Both of these contracts were
subjected to stockholder approval.
In June, Roy’ s b irthday , the ice finally began to melt. W alt sent Roy an
Indian p eace pipe with a card. “It is wonderful” it read, “to smo ke the Pipe
of Peace with you again—the clouds that rise are very beautiful.
“I think between  us over the years, we have accomplished som ething—
there was a time when we couldn’ t borrow a Thousand Dollars  and now I
understand we owe T wenty-four million!”
Roy put  the pipe atop a lar ge portrait of W alt that hung in h is of fice.
“W e’ve made peace,” he explained to a visitor .  
As he pondered  his legacy at the studio and his financial legacy to his
family , W alt Dis ney also pondered something much lar ger: his legacy to the
world. W ith his sense of h imself having swelled, he knew that
entertainment w asn’ t enough and that not even Disneyland constituted a