# Página 400  
cut by cut. Oth er times he wo uld establish the general motive and the
meaning of the scene and leave  the storymen to write the lines, then return
to fi ne-tune them. As always his  focus was less on the narrative than on the
emotion and psychology of the s cene. “I want to feel it before w e start work
on it,” he said of Pinocchio’ s search for Geppetto.
As t hey worked, there was the p resumption that this was a story W alt did
feel. Af ter his impasse on Bambi,  he had decided to for ge ahe ad on
Pinocchio  because , as one storyman put i t, “ Pinocchio  was a picture W alt
knew ho w to make, while Bambi  still baf fled him.” The staf f felt the same
way . Em boldened by the success of Snow White,  despite the expectations it
imposed, they proceeded on Pinocchio  wit h assurance. “[W]e were pr etty
cocky coming of f of Snow White, ” W ard Kimball later admitted . “W e
thought we could just sit down and do another feature. And we p lunged into
it.” In fact, W alt  confidently predicted that the studio would be t urning out a
new feature every six months . But even as W alt tried to e xpedite the
production of Pinocchio,  he beg an enco untering probl ems. Some were
minor—having t o recast the voices of Pinocchio and Geppetto o r streamline
scenes th at moved too slowly in  W alt’ s estimation. Others, however , proved
as in tractable as those on Bambi.  Ken Anderson felt there was a problem
from the outset—a problem of  spirit. Ben Sharpsteen had been the one
encouraging W alt to push Pinocchio  when Bambi  was delayed, and because
Sharpsteen rather than W alt assumed the role of point man to m any of the
staf f, Anderson felt “it became more of a technical achievement than…[one
of] the heart,” as Snow White  so obviously was. Sharpsteen had his own
analysis of why Pinocchio  didn’ t run smoothly: there w ere too many
directors working simultaneously without the strong coordinating hand of
W alt that had impelled Snow White.  I nst ead, Sharpsteen was respon sible for
supervising the units, and W alt was now beckoned only if there was a
serious problem or if the units needed a boost. The result was a kind of
chaos.
W alt had  another perspective. He complained that in trying to keep his
ever -growing staf f engaged once Bambi  had  been post poned, he rushed
Pinocchio  into production without adequate planning, lest the animators sit
idle. “W e’ve tried to take care o f the whole plant in Pinocchio  and there’ s