# Página 828  
He c elebrated his sixty-fifth birthday on December 5 in the hospital. Roy
wired hi m from New Y ork about the grosses at Radio City Mu sic Hall for
Follow Me, Boys!  and  closed, “H ope this finds you feeling better . This is
your day and Edna and I send o ur love not only for today but a lways.” But
he w asn’ t feeling better—he wa s flagging. On his instructions no one was
allowed to visit him, save the family , who had taken a room next to his.
When P eter Ellenshaw asked to see W alt and was refused, he pa inted him a
desert scene with a smoke tree, which W alt hung in the hos pital room,
telling the nurses, “See that? One of my boys painted that for me.”
Even as  his condition continued to worsen, the family wouldn’ t accept
that he would su ccumb. On December 14 Diane went Christmas shopping,
buying him fleece slippers because he complained that his feet were always
cold in the hospital. “Somehow  that would make him not  d ie,” she later
said. That evening Lillian phoned her to say that W alt had seemed improved
that day . When he put his arms a round her to kiss her goodbye, she said, she
could fe el his strength. “I know he’ s going to get better ,” she told Diane.
Roy visi ted that night, and the two brothers talked for hours as W alt traced
his EPCOT plans with his finge rs, using the ceiling tiles as a grid. Sharon’ s
husband, Bob Brown, had also visited and told Lillian that W alt did indeed
look as if he had rallied.
The nex t mornin g Lillian and D iane got a call from T ommie W ilck that
W alt had taken a  turn for the worse. Diane drove to the old Encino house to
pick up her mother , but Lillian was still dressing, putting on her earrings
with gre at delibe ration and staving of f the hospital visit, and Diane recalled
that everything seemed to be occurring now in slow motion, as if she might
be able to arrest time and delay the inevitable. When they arrived at the
hospital and got of f the elevator , Diane saw her husband enter her father ’ s
room, th en sudd enly back out as if someone had shoved him. In  fact he was
recoiling from the shock of see ing his father -in-law’ s lifeless body . Inside,
W alt’ s hands were folded on his  chest. “Uncle Roy was standing at the foot
of h is bed, mass aging one of Da d’ s feet,” Diane later recalled. “Just kind of
caressing it. And he was talking to him. It sounded something like, ‘W ell,
kid, this is the  end I guess.’”  Sharon and Bob Brown arri ved shortly
afterward, and Brown asked Diane if she would accompany Sha ron into the