# Página 124  
dragged on for years—dragged on, in fact, until one evening that spring of
1925. As Roy to ld it, most after noons he would retire to the apartment the
brothers shared for a nap to reg ain his strength, then return to the studio,
work a few hours, and leave ag ain to prepare dinner . On the fateful night
W alt, dissatisfie d with his brother ’ s ef forts, stormed out on the meal. Roy
said he was so piqued by this l ittle tantrum that he decided at long last to
send for Edna. Though they had been betrothed since at least 1920, he
formally propos ed in a telegram . Edna, now thirty-five and the  last of the
six Francis children to marry , arrived in Los Angeles with her mother on
April 7—“It was getting to be  that time, you know ,” she later told an
interviewer—and she and Roy were wed four days later in Uncle Robert’ s
house on Kingswell A venue. W alt was the best man, and a girl named
Lillian Bounds was the maid of honor . In home movies of the w edding W alt
can be seen bear -hugging her and kissing her passionately .
Bounds was an i nker at the studio and one of its first employees . She had
come to Los A ngeles late in 1 923 from Idaho to visit her sister Hazel
Sewell, who was living with he r husband and seven-year -old daughter on
V ermont A venue in Hollywood,  not far from the Disneys’ studio. A friend
of Lillia n’ s sister had taken a job at Disney Bros. painting cels, and when
the Disneys asked the girl if she knew someone else who might be
interested in working there, the young woman told Lillian that she would
recommend her on the conditio n, Lillian later said, that “you won’ t vamp
the boss.” “I h ad no idea of vamping him,” Lillian remem bered, not
seeming terribly  impressed by W alt. The first time she saw him he was
wearing his old brown cardigan and a raincoat and was complaining that he
did not own a ca r . (He wouldn’ t purchase his Moon roadster until later that
year .) She only took the job, she said, because it was with in walking
distance of her s ister ’ s house and didn’ t require her to spend bus fare. She
went on  the studio rolls on January 19, 1924, at a salary of fifte en dollars a
week.
Just shy of her twenty-sixth birthday , nearly four years older th an W alt,
Lillian was the v ery picture of a contemporary urban woman, sh ort, slender ,
and pret ty , with  a broad smile and dark hair fashionably bobb ed, but like
W alt and  Roy , she was actually the scion of pioneers and was s teady rather