# Página 236  
story department, something unheard of at any other animation studio. It
consisted of Bill Cottrell, the ink-and-paint-man-turned-camera-operator -
turned-animator , W ebb Smith, a former newspaperman, and Pinto Colvig,
who wo uld later  become the voi ce of the character Goofy . Thes e men were
initially char ged with helping devise better gags without the re sponsibility
of h aving to a nimate them. W alt would toss them a situ ation—say ,
Mickey’ s pet dog Pluto gettin g stuck on flypaper—and then let them
develop it. “I came back in two days,” W alt recalled of having given W ebb
Smith th at instru ction, “and there was a whole wall full of things that would
happen to that dog if he got mixed up with flypaper , see? S o then the
process would be of sitting down with that, taking some of those ideas,
copying them if we could, putting them into some kind of routine and
continuity .”
It was the continuity on which the storymen, with W alt’ s blessing, now
began to concentrate. W alt wan ted the story and gags to be as polished as
the animation itself. T o elevate t he status of the story , W alt, rather than have
the gagmen move from animator to animator with their ideas, installed them
in their own room, where the e ntire staf f would congregate at a cartoon’ s
launch to discuss the storyline and gags, and where directors would later
repair to  flesh out the stories and convert them to visuals. Meanwhile one of
the storymen—some sources credit W ebb Smith, others T ed Sears—came
up w ith the idea  of laying out the entire cartoon scene by scen e in a series
of rough sketches, the plot equivalent of the pencil tests, and pinning them
on a lar ge four -by-eight-foot corkboard—a “storyboard,” it was called—
that permitted the storymen, the animators, and W alt to get an overview of
the narrative flow of the film.* N ow W alt cou ld study the ca rtoon even
before it  had been put into penc il tests. As one animator said, “Y ou get the
feeling that every last frame of that thing has been worked over until it’ s
perfect!”
Whenever one element changed, it set of f a chain reaction. The new
regard fo r story demanded a new approach to the animated figures. So long
as carto ons simply linked slapstick gags, characters were little more than
foils. Ev en the early Mickey M ouse was a device that accommodated the
comic situation— leering when the circumstances demanded lee ring, fearful