# Página 57  
freshman named Russell Maas (his McKinley V oice  e pithet was “Small,”
which w as inten ded as ironical since W alt described him as big and tall)
formed a  Dutch comedian act li ke the one W alt had done with Pfeif fer , but
when th ey atten ded a tryout at  a seedy theater one Saturday  night, they
promptly got the hook. W alt ad mitted he was devastated. He even began
pondering photography as an alternative career path.
In truth, as a newcomer in Chicago without friends or footing, he had lost
some of his Kansas City extrov ersion, which may have accounted for his
failure on the stage. Whereas a Kansas City acquaintance c alled him a
“‘smart alecky kid,’ inclined to have slight snobbish actions,” t he editor of
the V oice  des cribed him as “extremely shy and reserved,” possibly , she
suspected, becau se he was older than his classmates, and said that when
W alt submitted his drawings, he  “literally fled from the scene.” W ith girls
he w as usually dif fident, and though his sister Ruth descri bed him as
“something of a ladies’ man,” s aying she once sighted him wi th a girl on
each arm , this was more likely a  function of how attracted they were to him
—he was a handsome teenager—than of how comfortable he was with
them. A girlfriend of one of the  V oice  editors had a crush on him, but she
was unable to lo osen him up. When he did find himself with a girlfriend,
another classmate named Beatrice Conover , the relationship seemed social
rather th an roma ntic, with the tw o of them sharing ghost stories  or romping
through Humbo ldt Park. She thought of him as “happy-go-lucky W ally ,”
though she also described his h abit of gnashing his teeth, whic h suggested
that he was not so carefree anymore.
Conover was convinced that W a lt would be famous one day and told him
so, but when school ended for the summer , he pursued neither drawing nor
show business. Instead he took  a job at the O-Zell factory constructing
boxes, crushing apples for pectin (an ingredient in the jellies), and running a
jar capper and washer . Occa sionally he even filled in as the night
watchman. It was uninspiring work, dull work, but Sarah Scrogin, the
young w ife of O-Zell’ s president, saw his drawings and encouraged him,
even buying some. She also assigned W alt the job of drawing the poster for
the annual picnic and gave him time during work to do it. Y ears later she