# Página 724  
that his passion had been redirected from animation to the theme park. “Y ou
had to ask W alt  to come into meetings on ‘Lady and the T ramp,’” Frank
Thomas said, comparing it to the times when W alt would be “ rummaging
around in every room looking to see what people had done.” As Thomas
analyzed it, “I th ink he had really spent himself on what he wan ted to do in
animation.” Now  he would com e into an animator ’ s room when one asked
for his input, loo k at the work, and say blandly , “Y ou’re not in a ny trouble.”
Thomas took that remark to mean that W alt was making his staf f depend on
themselves, “like a mother bear shoving her cubs up a tree,” but others took
it, probably more accurately , as a sign of W alt’ s lack of interest. Where once
he h ad a dozen pictures in the pipeline and was frantic over w hich to do
next, he now had so few that the animators had to prod him to put
animations into production.
Ironically , as W alt lost interest, the studio was actually generating more
animation than it had produce d in years as a result of the Disneyland
program and The Mickey Mouse Club,  b ut it was simplified to make it
easier to draw and thus less costly . In fact, by 1956 the qu ality of the
animation within  the studio—the studio that every animator had once tried
to emulate—had  so deteriorated that Harry T ytle advised W alt that the work
could be “farmed-out” to outs ide animators, “not only greatly reducing
cost,” T y tle said , but also, in what would have been heresy even  a few years
earlier , “ getting a better quality .” W alt may have been disengaged, but he
wasn’ t b lind to these shortcomi ngs. He knew that much of what the studio
produced was junk. He was ju st willing to accept it now because, as he
would t ell Hazel Geor ge, “[w]hat the hell. It’ s going to help build
Disneyland, kid.”
Disney wasn’ t the only stud io where animation was in decline.
Animation of the sort that the Disney studio had inspired was endangered
everywhere—a casualty of high costs, fewer trained animators, and more
competition fro m television, where the animation necessarily had to be
more pr imitive to meet tight deadlines and budgets. Paul T e rry sold his
studio to CBS in  1955 and retired. MGM closed its animation unit in 1957
because, accord ing to Joseph Barbera, who was running it along with
W illiam Hanna at the time, the studio discovered that a reissue earned as