# Página 416  
so that the animators could study them from dif ferent angles. (He had, in
fact, fashioned just such a statue  for the crone in Snow White. ) W alt agreed
and then put Gr ant in char ge. E ventually they built models not only of the
characters but of inanimate objects, like the cage into which Pinocchio is
thrown, then filmed it swinging so they could trace the photostats. W alt also
wanted even more dimensional ity to the backgrounds and characters than
he had had in Snow White,  so he devised yet another system of application
of p aint called a “blend” that combined dry brushing and air brushing to
create roundness, especially on  cheeks. It was an extremely expensive
process—by one account ther e were twenty women in the airbrush
department alone—and W alt advised they use it sparingly (“W e must keep
from going broke on this picture ”), but he nevertheless insisted upon it as a
way of bettering  the look of Snow White.  Jiminy Cricket alone had twenty-
seven pa rts and twenty-seven dif ferent colors. As Frank Thomas later told
an interviewer , “[T]his was an era when he wanted things to be real. He
wanted it to be round, solid, reaching for perfection.”  
But Pinocchio  had become a chore, an oblig ation. W alt’ s real obsession
now was The Concert Featur e.  He would tell the animators that, as Ollie
Johnston put it, it would “change the history of motion pictures.” The
Concert Featur e  w ould be entire ly dif ferent from anything he had done. “I
don’ t thi nk it will be common,”  he told his staf f. “W e’ve always wanted to
do t his sort of  thing, but cou ldn’ t risk it—between a newsreel and a
feature.” Now , because Snow White  had given him the aesthetic capital to
do so, they cou ld. All that su mmer , even as he was hard at work on
Pinocchio,  h e was edgy waiting for Sto kowski to return from Europe ,
where the conductor was visiting composers’ relatives—among them
Debussy’ s widow and Ravel’ s brother—to secure releases for possible
musical selections, even writing  to W alt in code for fear that he would be
found out and coopted. When Stokowski arrived back in Los Angeles in
September 1938 , along with the  critic Deems T aylor , W alt coul dn’ t wait to
start list ening to  and selecting m usic. The three of them spent virtually the
entire m onth in Room 232 listening to records of classical pieces, dozens of