# Página 509  
What added to the tension was that they were no longer t heir own
masters. They had to please M or genthau. After working tirele ssly on the
storyboards, including sessions late on New Y ear ’ s Eve, W alt flew back to
W ashington with Roy and storymen Dick Huemer and Joe Grant  on January
4 to get Mor genthau’ s approval.  The secretary delayed the meeting one day
when th ere were  no days to spare—he had a migraine headache . He finally
padded o ut to greet them in his b edroom slippers with his Great Dane at his
side. An  aide objected to W alt’ s intention to use Donald Duck—to which
W alt riposted that for the Disn ey studio to give the T reasury Department
Donald Duck was like MGM giving them Clark Gable—but Mor genthau
signed of f, and W alt rushed back to Burbank to finish the project.
“W e slept on the job,” W alt later recalled. “W e got beds in there. W e
stayed r ight ther e. W e worked e ighteen hours a day .” There w as no rough
animation. Instead the original drawings went directly to cleanup and ink
and paint. It wa s completed and sent to the lab for processing on January
20; a title song was recorded the next day; T echnicolor got it b y the end of
that wee k and struck a print three days later , and three days after that it
delivered 250 prints. “This is the fastest time ever made on any cartoon
production,” W alt wired Undersecretary Buf fington.
But it came at a  psychological cost. As W ilfred Jackson remembered it,
when W alt, still the perfectionist, saw the finished film, he was unhappy
that some of the animation was not smooth, and he sat there pondering
uneasily , not wanting to sign of f on the film. “Finally , he turned around and
said, ‘Jack, ah…’” Jackson said . “He rubbed his head. ‘Y ou know…W ell,
Jack…’ He shifted in his seat. H e got up and said with finality , ‘ Y eah.’ And
he walked out. He had all sorts of ideas and he couldn’ t fix it up. He didn’ t
have tim e.” W al t Disney had ha d to make a concession that his animation
would not be the best.
The T reasury Department had no such qualms. Buf fington and
Mor genthau both pronounced th emselves pleased with the picture and, as
Geor ge Morris wired Roy , “greatly excited over ideas for other films.”
Mor genthau invited W alt and Lillian to W ashington for the premiere on
February 2 and a celebratory din ner . As it turned out, The New Spirit  was a