# Página 643  
Greenfield V illa ge in Michigan, W alt’ s second visit there, and W alt returned
to Califo rnia more inspired and expansive than ever about his park. Kimball
said it was all W alt talked about on the trip.
He c ould visualize it just the wa y he had once visualized the animations.
He could see  not just the trai n ride but the park around which it would run,
and by the end of August he had made extensive notes for a  production
designer named Dick Kelsey . He described a Main V illage wit h a railroad
station and a vil lage green—obviously modeled after Marceline. “It will be
a pla ce f or people to sit and rest; mothers and grandmothers can  watch over
small ch ildren at play ,” W alt wr ote. “I want it to be very relaxin g, cool and
inviting.” A small town would be built around the green, with the railroad
station at one end and a town hall at the other and police and fire stations in
between. A “variety of little stores” would ring the green, where Disney
merchandise would be sold. There would be a three-hundred-seat
combination opera house and movie theater . In the middle of the park he
envisioned an ice cream–hot do g stand, but he also thought of a  restaurant.
And the re woul d be other sections too: an old farm, a western village, an
Indian compoun d (no doubt influenced by the Santa Fe compound at the
railroad fair), and a carnival ar ea with rides—“typical Midwa y stuf f.” A
buckboard woul d carry passengers through the western village and the old
farm. Already he was securing plans for a riverboat, and he had sent Jack
Cutting, the head of the foreign operation, to scout merry-go-rounds in
Europe.
By O ctober , however , the plans  had been temporarily sidelined. “T o tell
the truth, I have been so involved in production matters since I got back,”
he wrote a Santa Fe executive to whom he had been enthusi ng over his
plans, after returning from the railroad fair and then two weeks in Arizona,
“that I haven’ t given any further thought to my project.” In stead, with
neither the time nor the resources to devote to his village, h e launched
Disneylandia, most likely because it was an inexpensive and manageable
way to dip his toe into the water s of amusement and to test concepts for the
lar ger park while he supervised  production. For a man who was always
impatient—always drumming his fingers during presentations, or snapping
at subordinates when they didn’ t grasp his ideas immediately , or dragging