# Página 790  
W arner said, nobody had heard of her . Poppins was a consolation prize.
(T ravers, obtuse  to the ways of H ollywood, suggested Audrey Hepburn as a
possible backup for the Poppins role.) The negotiations for Andrews’ s
services began that October .
As for the role o f Mary Poppins’ s confederate, Bert the chimney sweep,
W alt had Cary Grant in mind and decided to expand the part to make it
equal to Mary’ s to lure Grant, w ho told W alt that he was receptive. T ravers
was not happy . She ar gued that  while Grant would be fine as t he father of
the fami ly to which Mary mini sters, to build up the role of B ert for him
would b e “muti lating the story” and throwing it out of balance. Grant did
not a gree in any  case, and W alt sounded out Laurence Harvey and Anthony
Newley before settling on the lo ose-limbed television situation comedy star
Dick V an Dyke. “W alt had rooms of storyboards that he showed me,” V an
Dyke later recalled, “and his en thusiasm for the film grew as he spoke. He
was like a kid, getting so excited about it that by the time I lef t him I was
excited a bout it too. He had me sold. I wanted to be a part of that movie so
much.”
As V an Dyke o bserved, W alt was ener gized. Despite the fac t that the
Mary Poppins  s cre enplay was written by the old studio hands Bill W alsh
(who ha d author ed The Abs ent Min ded Pr ofessor  and Son of Flubber ) and
Don DaGradi (who had co-written Lady and the T ramp  and collaborated
with W alsh on Son of Flubber ) and was directed by another old studio hand,
Robert Stevenson (who was coming of f Son of Flubber ), the film had an
aura, if only because it had been  worked on for so long and if only because
it w as the most elaborate and expensive live-action feature at the studio
since 20,000 Leagues.  “There wasn’ t a sad face around the entire studio,”
W alt sai d, and admitted he became concerned when, as the budget swelled,
not even Roy at tempted to interfere or request that he show the “dailies” to
the b ankers. It had been years since W alt was so personally in vested in a
film. On  just about every pictur e now , no matter how much he might labor
over the script or the casting, he would fix, approve, and then di sappear . On
Mary Poppins,  whi ch was sho t entirely on the Burbank lot, he visited the
set almo st every day with the objective—in the words of Karen Dotrice,
who played the little girl under  Poppins’ s authority—of “maki ng sure that