# Página 764  
expressed his thanks, and said t hat he would let W alt know . W alt, who had
assumed the meeting was a mere formality , was shocked, and only when the
vice president for public relatio ns chased after Ford, then retu rned to tell
W alt that the project was indeed a go, did the tension dissipate.
The situation was even more nerve-wracking at GE. W alt had been
courting the company for years  to sponsor Edison Square at Disneyland.
What he got ins tead was a versi on of Edison Square at the fair . W alt would
settle on a six-part Audio-Animatronic show , loosely inspired by Thorton
W ilder ’ s Our T own,  a bout progres s through electricity featuring GE
appliances—a “Carousel of Pr ogress,” as he called it, since the entire
auditorium would literally rota te like a carousel from one tableau to the
next. In addition , W alt agreed to  provide several exhibits in the  pavilion: a
Corridor of Mirrors, a Skydome Spectacular slide show , a demonstration of
controlled nucle ar fission, and a model of a Medallion City of  the future.
The bud get for all this was just under $10 million, $850,000 of  which was
to be  pai d as a retainer to WED.  W alt suggested that GE also pay something
for the use of  his name, so  Bill Cottrell, who was con ducting the
negotiations, as ked for a million dollars for “W alt Disney .” When GE
reluctantly agreed, W alt, joking  or not, told Cottrell, “Don’ t you think you
might have asked for a little more?”
The initial agreement was signed in September 1961, and GE executives
approved W alt’ s  historical approach the following May . But by the time the
executives came to the studio in  late July to view the outlines, t hey had had
a change  of heart. Now the company decided it didn’ t want the history of
electrical progre ss and of fered to  provide its own storyline. By one account,
W alt ex ploded. “I spent my wh ole life telling stories with nostalgia,” he
supposedly chid ed the GE of ficers, “and this is the way you communicate
with peo ple!” W alt even asked the legal department if he could break the
contract. W ithin a month another GE vice president smoothed the ruf fled
feathers, and the company agree d to support W alt’ s vision, but W alt was not
entirely appeased. GE executiv es would occasionally visit the studio to
view the progress on the pavilion. At one of these sessions, according to
Jack Spi ers, one of the writers for the show , W alt stood at the head of the
table an d annou nced: “All right, gentlemen, what I want you to do is go