# Página 95  
They were groping, learning as they went, improvising ev en their
equipment. The camera stand was made of four -by-fours with a plank laid
on th em and W a lt’ s Universal camera mounted above. A chain led from the
camera to a cra nk; one turn of the crank meant one frame exp osed in the
camera. Characters were traced from model sheets to ensure consistency ,
but the sheets, w hich correspond ed to full shot, medium shot, and close-up,
also rest ricted f lexibility . And though W alt used cels, it was not until the
third car toon tha t Ising suggested they draw directly on the cel rather than
paste drawings onto it. Y et the groping sometimes resulted in
improvements. At the New Y ork studios the pegs that held the paper in
place were at the top of the drawing board, away from the animators’ hands.
W alt put them at the bottom of the board so that animators could more
easily flip the pages and see the action.
There w as one area, however , in which W alt Disney did not im provise.
Realizing that if he could not yet challenge the New Y ork anima tors in their
drawing prowess, he could at least challenge them in their narrative
deficiencies, he did what the New Y ork animators almost ne ver did: he
wrote out his s cenarios in scrupulous detail as if they were  live-action
scripts. His story for Cinder ella  began: “ FLASH T O CLOSEUP OF ONE
F A T LADY IN HAMMOCK  re ading  ‘Eat and Grow Thin’—another girl
very skinny sitting in chair—they are eating out of it—slim girl puts down
book—she is cross-eyed—she begins talking to fat girl—fat girl answers
back.” In the ma r gins, in blue p encil, were the initials of the animators for
each sce ne: D for W alt himself, H for Harman, R for Ising,  and U for
Iwwerks.
The pre ssure to finish quickly was intense—they had no mo ney—but
W alt did  not allow the financial strains to subvert his other purpose: to for ge
a community to replace the family he had lost. Only one of the employees,
Lorey T ague, was married. The others, who had neither responsibilities nor
romantic entanglements, formed an infantile gang of prankster s and hams.
A friend who visited W alt’ s of fice at the time asked W alt if he was making
any mon ey . “Y ou smiled and s aid, No, but you was having fun. Again I
thought, W ill he ever grow up?”  W alt Pfeif fer said that the group arrived at
the o f fice at nine  each morning and stayed until midnight. “It was more fun