# Página 52  
shop being “plastered with draw ings,” and a neighbor said he often watched
W alt sitting outside the shop drawing cartoons on a blackboard. Even Elias
admitted that the drawings became an attraction: “The neighbors would go
down to the shop ‘to see what young Disney had this week.’”
Obsessed with drawing and encouraged by the attention he was getting,
W alt wo uld accompany his father to the Kansas City Star  of fi ce w hen Eli as
picked up papers or conducte d business there and head up  to the art
department or engraving room to watch the cartoonists, occasionally even
receiving instruction from the art director , Mr . W ood. Once h e was even
emboldened enough to ask for a job, but he was told the  paper was
downsizing at the time and no position was available. “It was  a sad day ,
believe m e,” W a lt recalled. During this same period W alt, for the first time,
sought formal instruction. Though Elias had no understanding of W alt’ s
passion and no af finity for art whatsoever , when W alt turned fourteen he did
permit h im to attend Saturday classes at the Kansas City Art Ins titute in the
YMCA Building downtown, where the boy not only drew but  learned the
rudiments of sculpture and casting.
Just as he had  contemplated a career as a performer when he was
receiving accola des for his act, he began to think of becoming a  newspaper
cartoonist now that he was r eceiving accolades for his drawings. He
admitted that by the time he gra duated from the Benton School—the school
went only to t he seventh grade—he had lost interest in a nything but
drawing and performing and tha t “[g]etting through the seventh grade was
one of the tough est trials of my whole limited span of schooling.” As W alt
received his diploma in June 1 917, Cottingham, who made a brief quip
about each graduate, said of W alt, “He will draw you if you like,”
underscoring ju st how much art had become W alt’ s identity . (W alt even
drew tw o pictur es of girls in broad-brimmed hats in the style of the famous
illustrator Charles Dana Gibson in his sister ’ s graduation book.) Along with
the d iploma, Cottingham also awarded him a seven-dollar prize for a comic
character W alt had drawn. “I am  still prouder of that money than any I have
earned since,” W alt told the Kansas City Journal-Post  nea rly t wenty y ears
later . “I really think that is what started me as an artist.”