# Página 173  
found in  New Y ork. At Disney the atmosphere may have been casual, but
when it came to work, everything was carefully planned. Every cartoon had
an e xposure sheet precisely outl ining each scene, each movement, and each
individual drawing. At first W alt had all of the animators spend a portion of
their time doing the layout w ork—laying out the backgroun ds and the
precise position s of the charac ters on those backgrounds—b ut he soon
instituted one of his early divisions of labor by hiring a separate layout
artist, C arlos M anríquez, for this task. As the staf f grew , Iwerks too no
longer p rovided all the basic an imation but instead provided key sketches
that other animators would th en execute. At night he pre sided over
animation classes. By the end of the year Iwerks was concentrating on
preparing bar sheets and exposure sheets and heading up the Silly
Symphonies unit, while Burt Gillett headed up the Mickey Mouses.
The biggest dif ference, however , between the Disney studio and the
animation studio s in New Y ork was not in preparation or specialization; it
was in expectation. W alt Disney had to be the best. As he had with the
Alices and the O swalds, though with indif ferent results, W alt insisted upon
excellence, and Sharpsteen admitted that he soon had some misgivings
about joining the studio when he came to realize how high W alt’ s standards
were. A ssigned what he believed was a run-of-the-mill scene in  one of the
early Mickeys, he saw that W alt did not regard it or any scene that way . “In
W alt’ s e stimation, everything th at was done had to be executed with a great
deal of thought toward finesse in order to make it better .” It  could be a
struggle convincing men who had spent their careers thinking of animation
as a throwaway that they could and must accomplish somethin g better . “I
have encountered plenty of trouble getting my new men adju sted to our
method of working,” W alt complained to Giegerich that April, “but things
are clearing up now and it looks like we are going to be able to sail along
smoothly from now on.”
Part of W alt’ s secret was that in  insisting on quality from indiv iduals of
whom it  had never been required, he inspired commitment. “W e’d hate to
go h ome at night,” Iwerks recalled, “and we couldn’ t wait to get to the
of fice in the morning. W e had lots of vitality , and we had to work it of f.”
Though only a short time earlier the atmosphere at the studio had been