# Página 588  
wrote screenwri ter and playwright Elmer Rice, “…and one need not look
far b elow the su rface to discover that the or ganization and its lea ding spirits
are deeply tinged with isolationi sm and anti-unionism and of f-the-record, of
course—with strong overtones of anti-Semitism and Jim Crowism.”
Meanwhile an informant had told the FBI that the executive secretary of the
Los Ang eles Communist Party had been discussing ways of sullying the
MP A, b ut the secretary had e xempted W alt Disney from the criticism
because Disney had done such fine work for South America.
But if the Communist Party was sparing W alt Disney , his friend,
producer W alter  W anger , was not. W anger and W alt engaged in some frank
talks ab out the MP A, and W an ger sent W alt a scathing letter that he had
written to one of the MP A ’ s of ficials in which he blasted the group for
attracting “irresponsible people” and permitting them to speak f or it and for
picturing the leaders of the industry as “at best, inept, and as at worst,
fools.” And W anger was worrie d about W alt, about where he was headed.
W alt had sent hi m an article by the red-baiting columnist Geor g e Sokolsky
lacerating V ice President Henry  W allace, for whom W alt had once attended
a din ner , and ur g ed W anger to r ead it. W anger wrote back regre tfully , “The
minute you become a producer of the Sokolsky theme in your  films, I am
afraid you will never make a SNOW WHITE,  a DUMBO,  a SALUDOS
AMIGOS,  a BAMBI  o r a PINOCCHIO.  T hese pictures are full of fait h,
decency , ideals and charm.” A nd he closed: “Y ou had better look in the
mirror and not be impressed by rabble rousers.”
But he had  been impressed by the rabble rousers, and he hadn’ t  made
another Snow White, Pinocchio,  or Bambi.  T hough  he publicly professed t o
be nonp artisan—“As an indepen dent voter I owe allegiance to no political
party ,” he told a national radio audience before endorsing 1944 Republican
presidential nominee New Y ork governor Thomas Dewey—he donated
heavily to the Republican Party , allowed a Dewey rally on  the studio
grounds, delivered a speech for Dewey at the Los Angeles Coliseum, and
was sele cted as one of California’ s electors should Dewey win , even if he
was stirred less by enthusias m for Dewey , who was a comparative
moderate, than  by antipathy to the Roosevelt administration. T o a
Republican fund-raiser , he wrote, “I’m sorry I can only give money .”