# Página 450  
The advantages,  as W alt saw it, were not just that the film allowed them
to cut corners, since it was much  easier and faster to make a live -action film
with a bit of ani mation than to m ake an animated feature. He al so regarded
it as a kind of advertisement for the Disney studio and recommended
including refere nces to Bambi  and Dumbo  a s “teasers.” When one of the
staf f suggested that the movie might be better as a “how to” film about
animation, W alt adamantly disagreed. “I don’ t think you should have any
cartoon studio,” he snapped. “I think it should be this studio. T his studio is
known all over the world…. There is audience value in showing this plant
in o peration if you properly present it.” In making the film, he had one
other mo tive as well. At the very time when morale was begin ning to sink
and ther e were rumbles of discontent, W alt, ever the social engineer , wanted
to show the world just how bliss ful a community he had created. “The thing
we s hould play up throughout t he entire picture,” he memoed Al Perkins,
who was writing up the story , “is that the gang generally have a good time.”
Though it obviously wasn’ t the first time that W alt had tried to  pick up
the pace  of production, halfhear ted as his ef forts often were, it was the first
time it worked—in part becaus e he wasn’ t intimately involved enough to
nitpick and slow things down. He did attend the main story sessions and
made substantial points, but the live-action director Alfred W erker , who
was borrowed from T wentieth  Century–Fox, said, “W alt gave me a
completely free hand in making  the picture,” even though the live action,
like the animation, was completely storyboarded. Production moved so
quickly that Benchley arrived at the studio in mid-October t o shoot his
scenes, and by the end of the month W alt was watching a ro ugh cut. He
even thought it possible that the film could be released in time for
Christmas.
But not everyon e at the studio was enamored of the idea. Some  felt that
in th e haste of making it and in the shortcuts they had tak en with the
animation, they had made a film about the new Disney studio that was
distinctly un-Disneylike. W ard Kimball, who worked on the film’ s animated
sequences, calle d it a “very revolutionary type of Disney cartoo n” because
it was minimali st rather than maximalist, some of it really only sketches
with a sound track, making no p retense at realism, and he said that some of