# Página 193  
pointedly , writer  and producer W illiam de Mille saw in Mickey an idealistic
altruist in the m old of Franklin Roosevelt whose whole life su ggested the
“beloved Don Quixote, with Minnie Mouse as the fair Dulcine a and good
old Pluto [Mickey’ s dog] fulf illing the duties of Sancho P anza.” Still
another scholar saw him as a rep resentative of a new jittery machine age in
which “the jerky rhythm of his movements, the constant  collisions,
explosions, and projections, are  symbolic of nervous modern m an living in
a whirl of mech anical forces that multiply every physical action by ten to a
thousand.” Natu rally , anyone subject to the same forces—and everyone was
—empathized with Mickey . Still others, looking at the rise of
totalitarianism in Europe at the time, believed Mickey to be a counterweight
and anti dote to an “age of dictat ors and tyrants…who stride the world like a
colossus”—in ef fect, meaning Mickey Mouse displaced reality for everyone
the way he displaced reality for his own creator .
He was so much a part of his time that, writing nearly forty years after
Mickey’ s first appearance, cultural historian W arren Susman claimed that
while political historians were likely to call the 1930s the age of Franklin D.
Roosevelt, cultural historians w ould consider it the age of Mickey Mouse,
both for the way the mouse seemed to confront the period’ s dislocations and
agonies and for the way he seemed to suggest a remedy to them. “The
Disney world is a world out of order: all traditional forms seem not to
function,” Susman observed. “And yet the result is not a nightmare world of
pity and  terror , a tragic world, but a world of fun and fantasy with ultimate
wish-fulfillment, ultimate reinforcement of traditional ways and  traditional
values.” “No matter how disord ered the world appears,” he wro te, “Disney
and his Mickey Mouse—any of  his heroes or heroines—can fin d their way
back to happy achievement by following the announced rules of the game.”
Meanwhile som e psychological approaches regarded Mickey as striking
deep psychic lodes. These analysts found Mickey’ s visual iconography to
be reassuring (“[C]ircles never cause anybody any trouble,” observed
longtime Disney associate John Hench, comparing Mickey’ s shape to
breasts, babies, and bottoms, w hile people have “bad experiences with
sharp po ints.”); or suggestive of the human, since Mickey’ s face was flat
like the human face; or as Iwerks once explained with a no d to Jung,