# Página 38  
hometown. I do.” His wife said  that when he would take a trai n across the
country and pass through Marceline, he would even dragoon passengers in
the m iddle of the night to point out where he grew up. Associa tes said that
his recall of events and animals in the town was almost total.
Disney scholars would cite the ef fect of Marceline on Disneyland’ s Main
Street, U .S.A., o r on its T om Sawyer Island, or on the live-action films like
So Dear to My Heart  and Pollyanna  that were steeped in small-town life
and ex tolled small-town virtues, or even on the early cartoons’
preoccupation with farm life and animals, which Disney himself
acknowledged. It was as if Ma rceline were a template for ho w life was
supposed to be, and he were trying to re-create the town, no doubt
attempting in the process to recapture its sense of well-being, freedom, and
community , essentially recapturing what he would call the most blessed
passage of his childhood. Marceline would always be a touchstone of the
things a nd value s he held dear; everything from his fascination  with trains
and anim als to his love of draw ing to his insistence on commu nity harked
back to the year s he spent there . And Marceline was an oasis as well as a
touchstone—W alt Disney’ s own escape, of the sort the Disneys had so long
sought w ith so little success. Y ears later , rhapsodizing about country life
during a meeting on the mood he wanted to achieve in the “Pastorale”
section of Fantasia,  W al t said, “Tha t’ s what it is—a feeling of freedom with
the animals and characters that live out there. That is what you experience
when yo u go into the country . Y ou escape the everyday world —the strife
and struggle. Y ou get out where everything is free and beautiful.”
He would spend the rest of his life trying to recover that feeling.
III
For Elia s Disney , moving to Ka nsas City was another admission of defeat.
He had left Chicago to escape the baneful influences of urban li fe, the noise
and bustle and c rime, but Kansas City , galvanized by the civic  boosterism
of Kansas City Star  editor W illiam Rockhill Nelson, was bur geoning at the
time they arrived. Lar gely as a result of Nelson’ s campaigning, the city had