# Página 820  
Harrison Price joked about death  statistics, W alt gave him a “fierce reaming
out.” “[D ]eath is not an acceptable topic,” Herb R yman warned  Price. Still,
as he did with m ost aspects of reality , W alt used wish fulfillm ent to deny
death. He had on ce boasted to h is aunt Jessie that “[l]ongevity seems to run
with the  Disneys—on both sides of the family , I would say ,” and  he seemed
comforted by the fact that his fa ther had lived into his eighties and his uncle
Robert, who had died in 1953, well into his nineties, and that his mother ’ s
sisters had lived long lives as well.
W ith mortality increasingly on h is mind, he seemed to receive a reprieve
that win ter when he went in for a checkup at UCLA and was pronounced
“normal for my age,” as he wro te Hayley Mills. “However after my annual
check-up a couple of weeks ago  I decided to leave tonight for an extended
stay in the desert where I’m going to relax and read the trunkf ul of scripts
which I should have read months ago and will finally have a chance to
catch up  on.” His mood brightened, and he seemed not only relieved but
rejuvenated. By the spring he was making his eastern swing for EPCOT . In
June he visited M ineral King and attended the premiere of Lt. Robin Crusoe
on the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk  a nchore d of f San Diego, where he
was perm itted to sit in the cockpit while a plane took of f and la nded on the
deck. “J ust abou t the most inter esting and exciting two days in  my whole
life,” he  wrote the captain in char ge. And in July he, Lillian, Diane, Sharon,
and thei r families—Sharon had given birth to a girl six months earlier—
flew to V ancouver for a two-week cruise on a 140-foot yacht with two
sixteen-foot fish ing boats and a  crew of eight, ostensibly to celebrate W alt
and Lillian’ s forty-first wedding anniversary but primarily to bring the
family together . “It’ s something  I’ve always wanted to do,” W alt wrote one
of th e st udio’ s bankers, “and it’ s the first time everything has wo rked out so
that we could all go.” “W e are just going to cruise in and out of the inlets,”
he explained in another letter to a former secretary , “drop anchor and
explore and fish.” Diane admitted that the families were “at each other ’ s
throats s ometimes” and that she and her mother had their quarrels, but her
father se rved as “peacemaker .” “He was becoming so much more serene,”
she would recall. He would often sit alone, quietly , on the top deck with his
scripts o r a book on city planning, wearing a captain’ s hat and an ascot,
while the wind whipped around him.