# Página 593  
had more Jews than the Book of Leviticus. Maurice Rapf concurred that
W alt was not anti-Semitic; he was just a “very conservative guy .” Still,
when T ytle—w ho had changed the spelling of his name f rom T eitel,
shortened from T eitelbaum, to hide his ethnicity—joined the studio, he felt
compelled to tell W alt that he was half-Jewish. T o which W alt snapped that
if he were all  Jewish, he would be better .
Moreover W alt contributed frequently to Jewish charities: the Hebrew
Orphan Asylum of the City of  New Y ork, Y eshiva College, the Jewish
Home for the Aged, even after the war to the American League for a Free
Palestine. At the very time tha t W alt was appearing before H UAC, Ned
Depinet of RKO had passed alo ng a folio from some friends trying to get
W alt to make a  Jewish-theme d film, which certainly would have been
unlikely had they thought of W alt as anti-Semitic. A decade later , in 1955,
he would be na med Man of th e Y ear by the Beverly Hills Lodge of the
B’nai B’rith, the or ganization that had branded him an “arch-reactionary”
during the Song of the South  d ustup.  The plaque read: “For exemplifying
the b est tenets of American citi zenship and inter -group understanding, and
interpreting into action the ideals of B’nai B’rith, Benevolence, Brotherly
Love and Harmony , and for bringing laughter and happiness to all people.”
So why then was W alt so often  called anti-Semitic? For one t hing, the
idea was encouraged by disgruntled employees like Art Babbitt and David
Hilberman. Hilberman told one Disney biographer that an animator named
Zack Schwartz had been fired shortly after the presentation o f the union
cards. “He wasn’ t a troublema ker , he was a good artist and didn’ t give
anybody a hard time. What he did have was the last name of Schwartz and a
big n ose.” (In fa ct, W alt seldom involved himself in hiring or f iring except
at the very top tier .) Many years later an animator and director named David
Swift, also a Jew , told another biographer that when he informed W alt he
was leaving the studio for a job at Columbia, W alt called him into the
of fice, f eigned a  Y iddish accent, and said, “Okay , Davy Boy , of f you go to
work wi th those  Jews. It’ s where  you belong, with those Jews.” When Swift
returned to the studio after the war , he claimed that W alt, still re sentful, told
him that  the studio hadn’ t “come to any harm while you were  away with
those Jews.” It is certainly possible that W alt made these remarks out of