# Página 698  
problem was that the squid’ s latex skin had deteriorated since the shooting,
so it  had  to be restored and repainted. Ken Anderson, who had designed the
Disneylandia miniatures, was a ssigned the task along with two other staf f
members, but then W alt appeare d. “W alt put on a mask,” Anderson would
recall, and “helped us spray- paint the screen [for the ex hibit] with
fluorescent pain t.” The area was enclosed, and the paint, And erson said,
“filled t he air and clogged our  masks.” It took all evening to finish the
operation, and W alt stayed up too—“the whole night before the opening.”
Y et, for all the flurry of activity —W alt had had to go to the airport that day
as w ell to gree t lessees who had flown in for the dedicatio n—he was
preternaturally calm. “Just about everyone was worried except  W alt,” said
Jack Sayers, the director of guest relations. “He seemed t o love the
excitement.” That was because W alt Disney knew he was in his element
again. And he knew he was back.*  
The day  bloome d bright and hot  and less festive-seeming than r estive. C. V .
W ood h ad printed fifteen thousand invitations, which was the estimated
capacity of the park at any given time, but he soon discovered  that people
had cou nterfeited tickets. One man even leaned a ladder again st the fence
and let people over for five dollars a head. The staf f tried to regulate the
crowd b y opening the gates and then closing them at tw enty-minute
intervals, but even so the press  of people overwhelmed the facility . V an
Arsdale France, who trained the staf f, thought as many as 28,000 people
fought their way into the park. W ith the crush came problems. As the
broadcast opene d and the tide of guests began sur ging down Main Street,
the women’ s high heels got stuck in the hot, soft asphalt. Many of the
guests c omplained about the lack of drinking fountains. Others were
mystified when the walkway in  T omorrowland ended abruptly at a field of
dirt beca use W alt hadn’ t had th e funds or the time to complete the area.
Even W alt, rushing from one location to another for the s how , found
himself stopped  by a guard who had been instructed not to let anyone
through. “Either  you let me through here,” W alt boiled, “or I’m going to hit
you right in the face and walk over your body .”