# Página 728  
Though W alt’ s own animation style had been changing—and been
minimalized—since the great an imations of the late 1930s and early 1940s,
he wasn ’ t fond of UP A. “There  isn’ t enough money in the world to make
me go back and try to make cartoons the way they’re making them now ,” he
told Pete Martin. But despite that disparagement, he did try . “W e had a lot
of produ ct coming where we had to bring it in for a low bud get,” W ard
Kimball recalled . “He realized we had to cut corners and he didn’ t expect
the f ull animation quality that he was getting on the features.” K imball had
been ass igned a short describing the history of musical instruments titled
T oot Whistle Plunk and Boom  and began animating while W alt was on one
of his Europea n trips. He decided to use a more modernist style.
“[E]verybody said you’ll never get this by W alt—you guys are crazy…
straight lines, things like that, unheard of—backgrounds that were tippled
and thin gs glued on—you’ll never get away with it,” Kimba ll said. His
associates felt that Kimball was imitating UP A and that he had b etrayed the
studio. K imball confessed that he had been emboldened only because W alt
was gon e, but when W alt returned, he said he liked it, and the s hort won an
Academy A ward. Still, for all Kimball’ s protestations that he had devised a
new visual approach very dif ferent from UP A ’ s, he had c learly been
working under UP A ’ s influence. “In style a clean steal from the Bosustow
[UP A] cartoons,” T ime  r epo rted, but added approvingly , “T oot takes Disney
in one jump from the nursery to the intellectual cocktail party .”
The intellectual cocktail party , however , was not W alt Disney ’ s métier ,
and he did not succumb without a fight. While UP A was producing
Magoos, the studio put Lady an d the T ramp  the story of an ef fete female
dog who finds herself in the company of mongrels, into production. The
project had been in development since 1937, when W alt boug ht the story
from his  friend W ard Greene, the head of the King Features Syndicate,
which distributed W alt’ s comi c strips. It had gone through a series of
scripts: Joe Grant and Dick Huemer introduced two calculating Siamese
cats, T ed Sears introduced a d og pound, and Greene himself apparently
introduced a romance—though Grant and Huemer objected to the idea of
two dogs falling in love as “distasteful” and “utterly contrary to nature.” (It
was W al t who had scratched ou t the name “mutt” in the script and inserted
“T ramp.”) Like everything else at the time, the film was a casualty of the