# Página 169  
The term s were onerous, but W alt, ever the go-getter and an enthusiast
rather th an a pragmatist, was no t about to let money stop him fr om what he
was now confident was an ext raordinary opportunity to beco me a sound
expert. He wrote Roy desperate ly asking him to badger Cowle s or Cauger
or Stall ing, even Stalling’ s father -in-law , for funds, using  a second
mortgage on the studio as security . “But we must raise the Dough,” he
insisted. Stalling , in fact, did loan them $2,000. For the remainder W alt did
something that must have been  terribly dif ficult for him: he asked Elias,
who, resettled in Portland, O regon, with Flora, owned several small
apartment buildings. Elias likely took a second mortgage on one of them to
furnish W alt with a $2,500 loa n that February—a loan W alt justified by
telling his father that the recording studio is “no gamb le but an
opportunity .” The very day he received the loan, February 14, he signed the
contract with Powers, though h e had done so, again, withou t consulting
Roy , who was li vid. “Did you re ad this?” he shouted when W alt returned to
California later that month. “Of course I didn’ t,” W alt responded . “What the
hell! I wanted the equipment!” It was shipped out from New Y ork that
week.
W alt Disney , who had always e schewed the business side of h is studio
and depe nded upon Roy to raise  the funds he needed, was now not only an
animation produ cer but a sound recording entrepreneur as well. The month
after he returned  to California, he and Roy rented the T ec Art  Studios on
Melrose A venue in Hollywoo d for the sound operation, though the
animation operation remained at Hyperion. (Powers’ s deal for the Neilan
studio had fallen through at t he last minute.) In the meant ime Jimmy
Lowerre went to New Y ork to learn how to use the system, a nd in April
W illiam Garity , Powers’ s sound  man, arrived at the studio to su pervise the
use of the equipment. “When completed,” Roy wrote one prospective
customer , “this stage will be equal to any sound stages so far constructed.”
Intending to provide full sound  services, the Disneys began ou tfitting two
old trucks with recording equi pment for location shooting, though what
they were also doing was further indebting themselves to Powers.
While W alt was arranging this salient of his assault to mak e himself
animation’ s ind ispensable man, he was having less success with his