# Página 617  
Of c ourse the main attraction of the house, as far as W alt was co ncerned,
was the railroad. He had intended for the train to run around the property—
about a half-mile of track—but Lillian protested that the plan would ruin a
flower g arden th at she had had designed. So W alt countered by  having one
of th e studio’ s co nstruction supervisors draw up a ninety-foot-lo ng tunnel to
run under  Lill ian’ s garden. And for good  measure the supervisor threw in
an S-cur ve to give riders a special thrill. T o memorialize the c ompromise,
W alt had  Gunthe r Lessing draw up a mock contract in which Lil lian granted
the “Carolwood  Pacific Railroad” a right-of-way on the property . By the
time he was finished, he had his tunnel, a forty-six-foot trestle, and just over
2,500 fe et of track girdling the property; and he had spent near ly $17,000,
not i ncluding $10,000 in labor costs that he had transferred from his home
account to his railroad account. “W e spent the first half-year in the house
with a bulldozer in the back yard fixing grades for the railroad,”  Lillian told
an interviewer . “Bulldozers cost a lot to rent. They drive you crazy with
their no ise.” Sti ll, W alt was no t going to sacrifice his railroad , no matter
how much Lillian complained. “Father was sympathetic but firm,” she said.
Just as he loved to play soda je rk, he loved to play engineer . He would
don an engineer ’ s cap and a p laid shirt, straddle the tender behind the
engine, which he had named Lilly Belle,  in  Lillian’ s honor , and fire up .
Guests to the D isney home were invariably invited to take a ride on the
train, an d W alt would issue pas ses to “vice presidents” of the Carolwood
Pacific—a list that included W alter W anger , gossip columnist Hedda
Hopper , ventriloquist Edgar Ber gen, singer Dinah Shore, actor Dick Powell,
and even Salvador Dali, who thought the detail so perfect that he feared the
train wo uld have accidents that mimicked real train crashes “or even
sabotage…like miniature train wreckers!” Dali told W alt, “Such perfection
did not belong to models!” But t hat had been the whole point. W ith his train
W alt Disney had regained perfection.  
As W alt  was preoccupied with his trains and his house, his animators—
three cre ws headed by Gerry G eronomi, W ilfred Jackson, and Ham Luske