# Página 18  
Another biographer , drawing on  the deep hostility that Disney now evoked
among intellectuals, accused him  of being everything from the illegitimate
son of a Spanish dancer to an al coholic to a bigot to an FBI informant. The
book was subtitled Hollywood’ s Dark Prince.
By the 1950s Disney himself was well aware that as a produc er he had
headed up the ri ver to the heart of commercial darkness and that  as a person
he had allowed himself to become lost in the corporate haze. He had created
the s tudio; then the studio, with his complicity , created him, making him, he
fully un derstood, as much a commodity as a man—the v ery sort of
dif fident, genial , plainspoken, unprepossessing, and childishly enthusiastic
character who would have produced W alt Disney movies. Essentially , he
had become his own parcosm. Though he actually possessed all of those
qualities, they were now simplified, like his signature, into an image and
brand. H e told one prospective employee that the studio was in the business
of sellin g the name “W alt Disn ey .” T o another associate he commented,
“I’m not W alt Disney anymor e. W alt Disney is a thing. It’ s grown to
become a whole dif ferent meaning than just one man.”
Though Disney was anything but a dark prince, neither was he exactly
the a f fable illusion that had sub sumed him. For all his outward  sociability ,
associates found  him deeply private, complex, often moody , and finally
opaque. No one seemed to know him. “He was a dif ficult man to
understand,” sa id Ben Sharpsteen, who worked for him in various
capacities from the late 1920s on. “He never made his motives clear….
When I added u p thirty years of  employment, I found I understood him less
at th e end.” Bill  Peet, another lo ngtime studio hand, wrote, “I do believe I
knew W alt about as well as any employee could know him,” then added,
“even though he was never the same two days in a row .” “I’ve always said
that if you get forty people in a room together ,” W alt’ s neph ew Roy E.
Disney t old an interviewer , “and ask each one of them to write  down who
W alt was, you’d get forty dif ferent W alts.”
This boo k is an attempt to pene trate the image and decipher the  mystery
of W alt Disney—to understand the psychological, cultural, economic, and
social forces that acted upon h im and led to his art and his empire. And