# Página 427  
each “be autifully wrapped.” “W alt didn’ t wish anyone a merry Christmas,”
Jane Pat terson r ecalled. “He didn’ t chat…. He just passed the presents out
to all the girls a nd left,” though in doing so, she said, he had  lifted their
morale considerably . In the end, despite the round-the-clock labor , the
studio m issed th e original Christmas tar get by over a month. W alt was both
weary and discouraged. As he lamented to Gus V an Schmus of Radio City
Music H all, “It’ s the toughest jo b the animators have ever had, and I hope I
never have to live through another one like it.”  
While Pinocchio  w as barreling t o its finish, W a lt was focused on his true
passion of the moment: The Concert Featur e.  Now , in Stokowski’ s absence,
the studio faced an ur gent task. It needed a title for the film. Since its
inception, it had been called The Concert Featur e  or Musical Featur e,  but
as it proceeded, RKO publicist Hal Horne was pushing for something more
euphonious—something, he hoped, that they might copyright to preclude
any other animation studio from  using it. His own suggestion was Film-
harmonic Concert,  but Stuart Buchanan decided to conduct a contest at the
studio for other possibilities. T wo hundred and fifty-nine employees
submitted nearly eighteen hundred titles, including Bach to Stravins ky and
Bach  and Highbr owski by Stokowski.  Sti ll, the favo rite among those
supervising the film remained a  very early working title, Fantasia.  By the
time of the cont est, even Horne had warmed to it. “It isn’ t the word alone
but the meaning we read into it,” he wrote Buchanan that May . W riting at
the b ottom of th e same letter , Ro y gave his approval: “‘Fantasia’ has grown
on us until it se ems appropriate, has a nice sound & is intrig uing.” Only
Stokowski seemed unconvinced. That October he suggested he and W alt bat
around titles themselves “by trying to find what we want to  say to the
public th rough this picture and its name.” Whether or not they did so, the
title remained. The film was thenceforth known as Fantasia.
By this time the animation on th e film was well under way , and W alt was
deeply involved despite periodic detours for Pinocchio  and Bambi.  He was
aiming for greatness. For “T occata and Fugue” he had enlisted  a German