# Página 791  
everybody was happy . That was the thing—he wanted everybody to enjoy
the e xperience.”  Later Dotrice, echoing V an Dyke, said he was “like a big
kid.”
Though he didn’ t—couldn’ t, given his other responsibilities at the time—
work on the script line by line, he obviously connected with  the film in
ways that he had not connected with most of the studio’ s recent pictures.
Despite their emphasis on childhood release, Disney’ s best movies had only
secondarily been  concerned with liberation; his chief concern had always
been maturation  and the powe r that accompanied it. Even Pinocchio’ s
transformation f rom a puppet to  a boy , and Dumbo’ s from a pu t-upon little
elephant to a circus star , were ef fected by accepting re sponsibility ,
demonstrating e mpathy , testing  courage, and, finally , expressing love—
hallmarks of adulthood. Mary Poppins  was  a kind of re version to childhood
before r esponsibility or , rathe r , a reaction to it. In a household that
encouraged them  to suppress their antic spirits and behave like adults,
Poppins taught the children joy— how to fight bureaucracy , convention, and
complacency , which were the drawbacks of adulthood. If his earlier films
had spok en to young W alt Disney’ s need for empowerment, Poppins  spoke
to the older W alt Disney’ s predicament as a corporate captain burdened
with dut ies, and  he could certain ly identify both with Mr . Banks , the stodgy
banker who has a child lurking within him, and with Mary Poppins, the
magical nanny who manages to  emancipate that child. The film  embodied
his new vicarious dream of shirking responsibilities he knew he really
couldn’ t shirk, of being the child  that reporters often said he was but that he
couldn’ t really be.
Made w ith a kind of joyful aban don that the studio hadn’ t felt for years,
Poppins  con cluded its p rincipal photography uneventfully at the end of the
summer of 1963, with W alt writ ing his sister Ruth, “I think it’ s going to be
one of our best.” But even with the photography completed, the  picture was
far f rom over . It had taken a lo ng time to prepare the film—to  choose the
scenes from the book, to write t he dialogue, to compose a score, to find the
cast, to parry T r avers. It would take a long time, another full year , to finish
it. The problem was that even though W alt had always intended the film to
be a combinatio n of live action and animation and had authorized Ub