# Página 609  
excessive nostalgia no doubt influenced by his memories of Marceline. In
celebrating small-town life and small-town values, he had ostensibly gone
over to Norman  Rockwell territory and reinforced his new postwar image
not as a daring folk artist but as a conservative folksy artist. So D ear to My
Heart —even the title was sentimentalized—was not a bad film. It was,
however , on its face a kitschy , syrupy , unimaginative one—essentially a
greeting card. Still, W alt neede d a hit so desperately that he spent three
weeks that January attending p remieres in Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky , and
T ennessee—this from a man who once couldn’ t spare the time to attend the
American premiere for Bambi.
Y et in one respect, one important respect, the film was a departure and a
hope. W alt had conceived it as a fully live-action feature, his first, even
though it hadn’ t turned out that way , and as such it was a kind of
fulfillment. Alm ost from the moment he had arrived in Lo s Angeles,
making live-action films had been his ambition. Live action was  easier than
animation and cheaper , and at least when W alt had begun, it was much
more pr estigious than animation . Unable to break into live action, he had
retreated to the one thing he knew , cartooning, but he had never quite
surrendered the dream, and by the time the strike was approaching, W alt,
presumably in anticipation of losing some of his animators, had drafted a
treatment for a film titled Hound of Flor ence,  wh ich he sent  to RKO’ s
production head , Geor ge Schaefer , with the instruction that Schaefer keep
in mind “this is not intended for combination cartoon–live action, but
instead it is wri tten entirely for live action, using all the tricks we know a
dog can  do and playing it for comic suspense throughout.” H e thought it
could be  made for under $400,000, which was considerably l ess than he
was spending on his feature animations.
The film was no t made, another casualty of belt-tightening, but  W alt had
edged cl oser to live action, lar g ely as an economy measure, with Song of
the South  and then So Dear to My Heart,  and the animators were concerned.
“As soo n as W alt rode on a camera crane,” one animato r quipped,
acknowledging W alt’ s love of both control and technology , “we knew we
were going to lose him.” Ben Sharpsteen admitted that many animators
were “very upset” and asking whether W alt was deserting them and