# Página 235  
outline to the staf f and then ask them to “gag” it: “So let’ s all hop to it and
have so me good belly laughs ready by T uesday night,” wen t a typical
request. W alt would then award  prizes for the gags he used—one or two
dollars, occasionally as much as $3.50 in the early thirties, though the rate
was soo n standa rdized at $2.50. At Disney too the gag was the fundamental
narrative component. It was the basis on which cartoons succeeded or
failed. “Y ou must sharpen your ability to get right at the basis of the gag,
without mistaking the trimmin g for the meat of the action,” W alt once
instructed Dick Huemer , while warning another employee that he seemed to
lack an “understanding of the proper portrayal of gags.”
At other studios, where animat ors would either select or be assigned a
basic situation and then animat e as they desired, whether one  animator ’ s
gag really connected to anothe r ’ s or not was irrelevant. Good gags were
everything. Disn ey’ s gags may not have been any better than those of his
rivals, but, as animators Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston put it, “they were
staged b etter , with more care t aken to establish the situation. There was
more co ncern fo r detail, for bui lding comedy , for making the g ag pay of f.”
“Our mistake was that we w eren’ t establishing anything first,” Dick
Huemer observe d of his pre-Disney days animating gags. “W e were giving
the payo f f without the buildup…. Disney always very carefully planned
things, so that ev erything was understandable, and one thing happened after
another logically .” One animatio n historian cited the dif ference between the
very early Disney cartoons an d the cartoons of 1931 as a matter of
“density .” In the later cartoons, each individual gag was more complicated,
and the gags accumulated, each gag building on the one that preceded it.
Y et even  while he was analyzing  and then refining the gag, W alt was also
changing the basic narrative unit of his cartoons. He had begun to think not
just in terms of gags but in terms of a story to which the gags would be
subordinated, w hich may have been as revolutionary an advance in
animation as his overlapping action. (Indeed, story was the very  thing W alt
himself had disdained while wo rking for Mintz.) When he hired T ed Sears
in 1930—the old Fleischer anim ator who, one colleague said, wore a high
collar , plastered his hair on his head, spoke out of the side of his  mouth, and
looked like a “defrocked priest”—W alt had appointed him head of a new