# Página 398  
Pinocchio  was supposed to be easier , and in any case, at the same time he
was wrestling with Bambi,  and partly because of his wariness about that
project, W alt had been hurtling forward with it that fall. Animator Norm
Fer guson claime d that he was the one who had given W alt a translation of
Italian Carlo Collodi’ s famous novel about the adventures of an impertinent
puppet that turns into a real bo y , and that after reading it W alt was “just
busting his guts with enthusiasm.” Presumably thinking of it f or his third
feature, he instructed Lessing to  secure the rights that Septembe r . By fall he
had mad e the deal and assigned Majolie to synopsize the book, though W alt
thought her outline was too faith ful to the original text. “I think the thing to
do is take the s ituations in the book and try to build the story  around the
ones that we can  do something with and not feel bound to the book,” W alt
advised a story meeting, before  sending of f the staf f to work o n individual
sequences. At the time the storymen assumed they would hav e months to
work things through. They didn’ t. One day W alt walked into the music
room, announced that Bambi  was  bei ng postp oned, and assigned Sharpsteen
to be the supervising producer and Jack Kinney the animation director of its
replacement: Pinocchio.  Now speed was suddenly of the essence. As
Kinney told it, “‘Crank it out’ was the word, so we did.”
That wi nter , in hopes of releasing Pinocchio  th e following December ,
W alt wa s meetin g with the story crew for hours at a stretch, often sounding
like the W alt Disney of the Snow White  story sessions, visualizing scenes,
defining characters, performing business, and “plussing” gags. Usually the
group ga thered in Projection Room No. 4, then Kinney or W ebb Smith or
another storyma n, Otto Englander , or W alt himself would begin reading the
continuity , triggering an almost T almudic disquisition on each story point,
each line, each gag—just as they  had done on Snow White.  And as on Snow
White,  as they did so W alt would keep revisiting scenes, repeating lines or
bits of business again and again and again, internalizing the film since he
was the only one at the studio, as F . Scott Fitzgerald said in The Last
T ycoon  of the rare Hollywood executive, who was “able to keep the whole
equation of pictures” in his head. Roy E. Disney , Roy’ s young son, even
remembered bei ng bedridden with the chicken pox when W alt and Lillian
visited his parents; W alt came in to see him, then sat on the edge of the bed
and told the story of Pinocchio  as he used to tell the story of Snow White.