# Página 521  
Artists executive s who had agre ed to release the film when RKO declined,
“There is a little too much optimism now ,” with Americans thinking that the
war might end in a year , whe n Seversky believed that it was likely to
continue for another five.  
If W alt felt he was saving the country from Nazism with V ictory Thr ough
Air Power ,  he was also hel ping to save Sou th America with his other film s.
All that spring and into the summer of 1942 the studio had been  completing
the package of shorts, now called Saludos,  inspired by the South American
trip of the prev ious year . “W e had better whip it into shape now or else
for get it,” W alt c onceded after watching a reel of the film that M ay , though
for getting it was really not an option. He spent much of May and June
polishing the film, then shipped it out in July so that Nelson Rockefeller
and Pres ident Roosevelt could screen it. “Everybody in our of fice is most
enthusiastic about SALUDOS, ” Fran Alstock, now the director of the
coordinator ’ s Motion Picture Division, wrote W alt after a July 29 preview .
“It was shown last night to a n umber of the most important p eople in the
Government,” a nd “its success far surpassed any of the pictures we have
shown.” Rockef eller himself wrote W alt that the film “quite e xceeds our
highest expectations.” Already the studio was considering a sequel,
featuring other South American countries.
Meanwhile, as he was attemptin g to save South America from the Nazis,
W alt was also c har ged with saving that continent from disease, pollution,
and malnutrition. Late that May , even before completing Saludos,  he and
seven of  his artists had gone to W ashington to discuss a series o f health and
educational film s—with uninspiring titles including The W inged Scour ge
(about mosquitoes), W ater: F riend o r Enemy ,  and The Grain That Built a
Hemispher e —as well as the four propaganda pictures, with the
Coordinator ’ s Of fice, and to meet with V ice President Henry W allace. W alt
certainly unders tood the importance of these films both for Sou th America
and for the studio, but they w ere basically makework, used to keep the
animators drawing and the studio running. In ef fect the studio , which had