# Página 638  
seemed to have diminished. B ut once the Cold W ar began,  Americans
seemed again to need reassurance, which may explain why Cinder ella,  an
old-fashioned and familiar sort of Disney animation, a contr olled
animation, found  favor . (W alt’ s own comment on the nuclear peril was, “If
people would think more of fairies they would soon for get the atom
bomb.”) Disney , a tonic force during the Depression, was now a touchstone,
providing comfort in a time of foreboding.
As w as so often  the case, what was true for the country was true for W alt
Disney personally . If America found control and reassurance in his films, he
had foun d both in his model trains, which was one reason he pursued them.
But that was not the only reason. The trains were also the brid gehead of a
much la r ger scheme that was o r ganizing itself in W alt Disney’ s mind. At
least as early as 1947 he ha d begun collecting miniatures —furniture,
figurines, coaches, boats, farm  machinery , even tiny liquor bottles and
crates. O stensibly these were adornments for the train layout and another
pastime to take his mind of f the studio when, as he wrote  his sister ,
“problems become too hectic.” But as W alt scoured miniature shops during
his trip to Europe in 1949 and on his various forays to New Y ork and even
up into New England; as he attended miniature shows; as he enlisted friends
to find miniatu res for him; as  he solicited miniatures through catalogs,
midwestern new spapers, and hobbyist magazines (using the name of a
studio se cretary as he had used machinist Dick Jones to solicit model train
information), he hit upon a plan. W ith his own two hands he would create
an entire miniature American turn-of-the-century village, a sort of
Lilliputian Marceline, and then display it in lar ge cases across the country .
T rue to W alt’ s new postwar persona, he said that the project would be a
means to convey traditional values, though the underlying metaphor
couldn’ t have been more transparent. Building the village was another way
for W alt to assert his control at the very time he seemed to be losing it.
T o r ealize the p lan, W alt buttonholed layout artist Ken Anderson and
of fered to put him on his personal payroll: Anderson was to pai nt scenes of
Americana that W alt would then  bring to life with the miniatures. “Y ou can
paint some paintings like Norman Rockwell,” Anderson recalled W alt
saying, “and I’ll build them.” The work would be done secretly , not so