# Página 190  
Even then it wa sn’ t over . Though W alt, Columbia, and Power s had all
agreed t o the terms, the deal wasn’ t concluded until Roy went to  New Y ork
early that April to iron out the final wrinkles, which, as was typical with
Powers, proved stubborn. After eight hours of negotiations on April 22 Roy ,
Powers, the Columbia executive s, and all the attorneys—“a regular army ,”
Roy said—had to reconvene a t eleven in the morning the next day for
another eight hours. “[I]f someo ne didn’ t raise an objection to every single
thing,” R oy wrote W alt later th at day , “some[one] else did.” Throughout,
Powers was jovial and kept ref erring to Mickey Mouse as Mickey Louse.
At the end of th e day , with the  exception of the Cinephone a greement—
which R oy later negotiated down from $13,000 a year to $ 8,500—the
Disneys were rid of Pat Powers once and for all.
Now it was Roy providing the optimistic missives. “I HONESTL Y FEEL
ELA TED OVER EVER YTHING,”  he wired W alt as he was finally leaving
New Y o rk after  three weeks of bar gaining. “SETTLEMENT GOING T O
WORK OUT GOOD AND FU TURE VER Y BRIGHT .”  Having wriggled
out of Powers’ s control, W alt was ecstatic. Geor ge Morris, who had recently
joined th e Disneys’ business of fice, said that the deal had lifted “ a weight of
worry o f f W alt’ s shoulders” and enabled him to return to m oviemaking
again after the months of distraction.
Under the new Columbia contract W alt would be receiving a $7,000
advance per cartoon in addition to a percentage of profits. But having once
again b een betrayed in business—and W alt having once again been
reminded of the treacherous rea lity that lay outside his cartoon  world—the
Disneys hardly regarded Colum bia as a deliverance from deviousness. As
he was negotiating with both Powers and Columbia, Roy learned that
Columbia had secretly approach ed their nemesis with an of fer of $60,000
for all his rights in the Mickeys or , alternatively , $30,000 and 2 0 percent of
the p rofits they would make from them, telling Powers that they would, in
Roy’ s words, “fight it out with us” themselves. Roy immediately corralled
Columbia executives Joe Brand t and Jack Cohn, who backed down, but
Roy was  still distrustful of his n ew partners and insisted on the  contractual
right to examine Columbia’ s books periodically , fully expecting that he
would have a showdown with them someday too.