# Página 414  
generally attended the story meetings and made suggestions— everything
from the  kind of music best suit ed for the undersea sequence (“ vibra harps,
soft tem ple blocks”), to Pinocchio’ s reaction to his transformation into a
donkey (“His little laugh goes i nto a hee-haw as he tests it. H e swallows.
It’ s him!”) to th e seriousness with which Jiminy Cricket shoul d accept his
assignment as Pinocchio’ s conscience. By December , W alt declared himself
pleased. “[T]he general outline seems pretty good to me now ,” he told the
story sta f f. “In other words, I thi nk we can safely go ahead. W e have tried it
every w ay and I feel that it’ s s afe.” In reality , given the sched ule and the
need for a feature, he had no choice but to approve the material.
W alt ma de, how ever , one last fix . That January he met with Bill Cottrell,
and Jaxon, and T ed Sears, Dorothy Blank, and Dick Creedon of the story
department, to discuss the possi bility of Jiminy Cricket becoming not only
the m oral center of the film but  also its narrator . “I kind of like  that where
he starts to tell a story in this little prologue af fair some way , ” W alt said,
then proceeded to describe Jim iny’ s new entrance as the ca mera tracks
through the village and into Gep petto’ s window while Jiminy sings “When
Y ou W ish Upon a Star ,” stopping to tell his story . This trac king scene
would, in the final film, be one of the most striking uses of the multiplane
camera, and it wound up costing nearly $50,000.
Centralizing Jim iny Cricket in th is way and unifying the film around him
seemed to have solved the film ’ s major problem, but it created another .
While the cricket had now been thoroughly conceptualized in narrative
terms, n o one seemed to know how he ought to look. Ham Luske suggested
that W al t talk to W ard Kimball. Kimball had been stewing ever since W alt
had cut his scen es from Snow White,  and he had deci ded to quit. He was in
W alt’ s o f fice to tender his resignation when W alt began his sales pitch,
talking a bout Jim iny and how h e reminded him of his own beloved addled
uncle Ed . Then he asked Kimba ll if he would take control of him . “God, he
did such a wonderful job,” Kim ball remembered, “that I walked out very
happily and said: What a wo nderful place this is!” Kimball set about
designing a “sort of halfway thing” with bulging eyes, a top hat, teeth,
feelers, arms, and an elongated body with thick legs. W alt was unimpressed.
“W e can ’ t have a character like that. He’ s gotta be cute,” he said , issuing the