# Página 384  
dwarfs,” and “I predict nobody’ll ever pay a dime to see a dwarf picture.”)
When W alt was  at the studio, which was most of the time, the two seldom
communicated, though Lillian did say she made certain to be home by five
o’clock or five-thirty every afternoon, W alt’ s dinnertime, to serve him. “He
demanded a lot of everyone aro und him,” she said as a way o f explaining
her schedule. “He always kept everybody in turmoil.” It was turmoil that
Lillian didn’ t always appreciate . By one account, around the time of Snow
White  the couple had even discussed divorce.
One problem was that as surely as W alt was focused on the studio, Lillian
was focused on her family . “He was very close to Lilly until Diane was
born,” his secretary Dolores V o ght told an interviewer years la ter . “[A]fter
Diane c ame alo ng, Lilly grew more interested in her , so she p ulled away
from stu dio af fa irs and concentrated on the home.” It was, no doubt, her
way to find herself while W alt w as fixated on Snow White.  Lillian certainly
seemed to resent her husband’ s preoccupation with work and the avalanche
of atten tion he received, but sh e was no silent, long-suf fering helpmate.
Lillian would erupt. Diane rem embered coming down for breakfast one
morning and seeing a lar ge bro wn stain on the wall. She later learned that
her mother had hurled a cup of cof fee at W alt. “Mother was a well
contained, poised person who never lost her temper with us children,”
Diane w ould say , “but also she would not let herself be put upon . She stood
up for her rights.”
Though W alt’ s deepest devotio n seemed reserved for his daughter , his
studio, and his pets—his chow , Sunnee, and a black cat, Manxie, who later
disappeared whe n he went to sleep in the gardener ’ s car and then  leaped out
in traf fi c—things seemed to improve with Lillian after she suf fered her
third miscarriage and the couple, at W alt’ s instigation, decided t o adopt. On
December 31, 1936, just as Snow White  was reaching its most manic stage,
W alt and Lillian received their new six-week-old daughter , Sharon Mae,
though a bout of pneumonia sent her back to the hospital fo r a month’ s
recuperation. Both parents were  devoted to her . They made no distinction
between her and Diane, and W alt would always bristle at any mention of
her being adopted. Indeed, W a lt and Lillian were so secretiv e about the
adoption that he had his garden er , Diane’ s nurse, and Marjorie Sewell pick