# Página 580  
the public with t hese things,” he recalled W alt saying repeatedly . “W e can’ t
be b oring. W e’ve got to be entertaining.” Eventually Nater left the studio
for academe, and the division closed.
But W alt had not given up entirely on finding a way to be both
entertaining and educational, pa rticularly if he could do so inexpensively .
During the war the coordinator for inter -American af fairs had suggested a
documentary on the Amazon Basin, which was made as The Amazon
A wakens.  A t the same time the studio w as inundated with requests from
naturalists about the possibilities of collaborating on nature documentaries,
and one of them , apparently at W alt’ s request, had even laid out a program
of sh orts. Roy p romptly quashe d it, saying it would “certainly  take a long
time and a lot of film,” but W alt was not deterred. From his days on the
farm in Marceli ne he had loved  animals and was fascinated b y them and
thought others would be fascinated too. (One visitor to the studio
remembered W a lt gently plucking a worm from a tree and sayi ng, “This is
one of God’ s creatures, and we  don’ t harm them.”) Late in 1944, even as
the studi o was deep into its war  films, Carl Nater and W alt had visited with
an o f ficial of t he New Y ork Zoological Society with a plan, as Nater
described it, “to eventually make films on animals, bird life, fish life, and
any other type of living creature around which there is a real story to tell.”
While W alt was considering s ubjects for the series, Ben Sharpsteen
approached him  in the hall one day , observed that returning veterans were
beginning to homestead in Alask a, and suggested that there migh t be a story
in it. W alt told him to pursue it. Inspired by a book written by a former
Stanford Univer sity president named David Star Jordan, who had helped
negotiate a treaty between Russ ia and Japan on seal hunting (the book was
told from  the seals’ point of view ), Sharpsteen said he contacted a husband-
and-wife photog raphy team in Alaska, Alfred and Elma Milotte. In fact, Al
Milotte had written W alt in 1940 of fering pictures of anim als on the
Alaskan range, which W alt, who  was in preproduction for Bambi,  declined.
But acco rding to Milotte, it was W alt, not Sharpsteen, who contacted him
sometime later about shooting film of Alaska—nothing specific, Milotte
remembered, just W alt saying , “Y ou know—mining, fishin g, building
roads, the development of Alaska.”