# Página 167  
quarter t o send for it. The image had stuck with him, and he suggested that
W alt animate a group of skeletons dancing to one of Sta lling’ s own
compositions that incorporated passages from Edvard Grieg’ s “March of the
Dwarfs.” The image stuck with  W alt too. As early as September he wrote
Roy tha t “Carl’ s  idea of the ‘Skeleton Dance’ for a Musical Novelty has
been growing on me,” and he cited what he called “dandy possibilities” that
he evidently conveyed to Power s, who expressed interest. On Ja nuary 1 the
studio b egan ani mating the film, and two weeks later , just before he arrived
in New Y ork again, W alt wrote Giegerich that he had something “quite out
of t he ordinary ,” though Ub h adn’ t finished enough for W alt to show
anything yet.
Meanwhile W alt  was in New Y ork recording the sound tracks for the new
Mickeys and enthusing over the reception of the Mickeys already in release.
Seeing The Barn Dance  at the Strand, h e wrote Lillian proudly that there
was a lar ge cardboard cutout of Mickey in the lobby , and he enclosed the
theater ’ s progra m as evidence of Mickey’ s growing popularity . “[H]e is
what is known as a ‘ HIT , ’” he declared with more than a little hyperbole.
The distributors, he crowed, “give me lots of praise for their cleverness,”
and he admitted that he hoped to  prove that the quality of the first Mickeys
“is not an accident but a consi stent standard.” He added that one selling
point was Ub Iw erks—not only his animation, to which, W alt said, “New
Y ork an imators took of f their ha ts,” but also his name, which made people
“look twice when they see it.”
But whi le W alt was recording the Mickeys and soaking up praise, he had
another , bigger mission in New  Y ork—a personal mission. During his first
New Y o rk trip, when he was pushing Mickey and facing rejection, one
distributor picked up a package of Life Saver candies. “The public knows
Life Sav ers,” he  told W alt. “Th ey don’ t know you. They don’ t  know your
mouse.” That made an impression on W alt. As he recalled it ye ars later , he
said to himself,  “From now on they’re going to know , if they liked the
picture—they’re going to know what his [the producer ’ s] name is.” So on
this trip he had  decided to st age a full-scale assault on the  animation
industry and establish “W alt D isney” as its undisputed leader—the Life
Savers o f animation. The timing was propitious. During his stay  he learned