# Página 465  
release o n a nonroadshow basis, RKO now insisted that the film be cut. Roy
asked W alt to te ll Stokowski, whom the studio was contractually obligated
to notify  of any changes, though  it was Ed Plumb, the musical arranger , and
not W alt, who passed on the news: “For most people,” P lumb wrote
Stokowski, “the experience of Fantasia is more than they can take without
fatigue.” Stokowski wouldn’ t be mollified, but W alt, who w as equally
distressed, felt helpless. “I frankly don’ t know what to do about it,” W alt
wrote Roy , saying that Roy might want to talk to Stokowski himself.
If he  did n’ t want to talk to Stokowski, W alt would have noth ing to do
with the editing either . Ed Pl umb and Ben Sharpsteen did the cutting
without any input from W alt, trimming the film from its original two-hour -
and-five-minute running time to an hour and forty minutes and then to an
hour an d twenty-four minutes, lar gely by scaling back Deems T aylor ’ s
introductions. W alt was despondent. “W e must remember there are a lot of
people w ho have  seen it,” he warned Roy , “and who will now come back to
F ANT ASIA  again, and we do not want to spoil it for those who appreciate
the finer things to sell a few highschool [ sic ] tickets.” But they did, though
even after doing so, Roy fretted: “I’m fearful for what it will do in general
release.” At roughly the same ti me Stokowski pronounced hims elf ready to
return to the studio to prepare recordings for the additional seq uences. But
the idea for a sequel had long si nce been dropped—“[T]he segm ents would
now be thought of as ‘individ ual Specials,’” studio production control
manager Herb Lamb informed t he studio, and even the “Specials” were in
jeopardy . If the film proved successful in its general release, W alt abjectly
wrote Stokowsk i, “I am sure I will be permitted to proceed with the
numbers that we had in work l ast Spring. Until that time, I shall have to
hold everything  in abeyance.” Speaking to The New Y orker ,  he was, if
possible, even less optimistic. “That damn thing cost two-hundred thousand
dollars,” he growled about “Th e Nutcracker Suite” and the di f ficulties in
animating it. “W e’re getting back to straight line stuf f, like ‘Donald Duck’
and the ‘Pigs.’”  It was a sad retreat for a man who had boasted for years
about the new horizons that Fantasia  would open.
Barricaded in his studio while the world was roiling around h im, W alt
hoped, as always, to insulate  himself from reality . Once, as he was