# Página 774  
team, an empire,” director Robert Stevenson said, echoing earlier criticisms
of W alt.  “The tradition here was  that if anybody got so important that they
put the name on the door , they  would not be here in a couple  of weeks,”
though S tevenson charitably be lieved this had less to do with W alt’ s ego,
which everyone acknowledged was lar ge, than with his fear of political
cliques forming within the studio. W alt may have delegated power and
appointed committees to do work that he had once done himself, but he
reserved the right to be the ultimate and only authority .
If th e st udio and the staf f were dif ferent from the ones over which W alt
had presided before Disneyland , so now were the films they produced. For
one thing, animation had pract ically disappeared; in the five years after
Sleeping Beauty  the studio produced only two animated features, 101
Dalmatians  and The Swor d in the Stone.  As for Mickey Mouse, he hadn’ t
appeared in a short since 1953. The emphasis had shifted to live-action
films. O f these, some were fami ly-oriented historical costume dramas of the
sort he had done in England, children’ s adventures, and even an occasional
tearjerker like Pollyanna,  based on the Eleanor H. Porter novel about an
orphaned girl who comes to live with her aunt and changes people’ s lives
through her goodness. But the s tudio had also begun to speciali ze in a new
genre: family comedies like The Absent Minded Pr ofessor ,  about an
inventor who discovers a substance that allows things to fl y , and The
Shaggy Dog,  about a boy who turns into a sheepdog.
While other studios were disc har ging their stars and retrenching as
audiences declin ed with the growth of television, W alt recruited a Disney
repertory compa ny—among the m, former Mouseketeer Annett e Funicello,
now a teenager; a gap-toothed  little boy named Kevin Cor coran, who
appeared in Mickey Mouse Club  serials, then ad vanced to features like Old
Y eller  ( “I think  he is a find,” W alt wrote Bill Anderson. “W e better get  some
kind of option on him.”); T im  Considine, another young veteran of the
Mickey Mouse Club  serials; another serial actor , T ommy Kirk; longtime
Hollywood star  Fred MacMurray , who had migrated to tele vision; and
perhaps most important of all, a young blond British actress named Hayley
Mills, the daughter of the actor J ohn Mills. She had come to the attention of
the stud io when W alt, having searched fruitlessly for an actr ess to play