# Página 349  
was in need of another infusion of cash. That month, after the Disneys had
asked fo r yet another loan, this one for $327,000, Rosenber g came to the
studio o ne tense Saturday afternoon to watch a rough cut of Snow White,
grudgingly host ed by W alt. Ro senber g sat through the screening silently
while W alt nervously explained  how certain scenes that were now just in
pencil sk etch wo uld later be ink ed and colored. Even after the screening, as
they hea ded to the parking lot, Rosenber g avoided talking abo ut the film,
only he ightening the tension. When Rosenber g reached his car , he slid
inside, said good-bye, and deadpanned, “That thing is going to make you a
hatful of money .” Then he drove of f.
Or at least that w as how W alt would tell it years later , as another example
of his fortitude a nd the rightness of his vision. In fact, for all his professed
reluctance to let anyone see Snow White  before its completion, he had
screened the color rushes of the film on the soundstage early one  evening in
September for the studio staf f. (According to Frank Thomas, W alt was still
so “innocent and unsophisticated” that he hurried Lillian from home for fear
that they wouldn’ t have a seat.) It was a triumphant evening. As W alt wrote
RKO head Ned Depinet, “[D]espite the fact that most of the audience have
been pretty close to the develo pment of SNOW WHITE  for the past two
and a half years—their reaction  was all that could be hoped for from any
audience.” W alt had passed out a questionnaire—since Morkovin had
worked at the studio, W alt routinely passed out questionnaires at the studio
screenings—asking whether any sections seemed too long or whether any
business was objectionable or whether any character ’ s personality seemed
inconsistent ove r the course of the picture and also for a scene-by-scene
analysis. Of the 359 responden ts, only one said he didn’ t enjoy the film.
“Stick to shorts!”* the dissident apparently wrote on his card, words W alt
would thereafter employ as a way of cutting anyone who displayed faulty
judgment. “If you were trying to sell an idea that did not jell or go over in a
meeting,” Thomas and Johnston remembered, “suddenly there would be
this loud, ‘Ah haaa!’  and W alt’ s finger would come shooting out toward
you; in a triumphant voice he would explain, ‘Y ou  mus t be  the guy who said
“Stick to Shorts!” ’ And for tha t day you wer e  th e guy , and ev eryone else
would keep looking at you and wondering.”