# Página 151  
a New Y ork agent named Denison to represent Plane Crazy  with
distributors in the East. When Feist and Dietz screened it, they told W alt
they like d it enough to show it to Nicholas Schenck, Metro’ s president, and
Robert Rubin, its vice-president. Elated and already anticipating a deal,
W alt ask ed for a negative advan ce of $3,000 per film, adding in a wire to
Denison that he intended to “make the name of ‘Mickey Mouse’ as well
known as any c artoon in the market.” But a week later W alt’ s hopes were
dashed yet again. Metro decided against taking Mickey Mouse.
Since he had no alternative plan, W alt had little choice but to keep
for ging ahead, making new Mickeys and depleting his treasury . But the
same we ek he received the rejection from Metro, he got another brainstorm
that in its own way was just a s monumental as the invention of Mickey
himself. Lillian recalled that it happened during a conversation between
Roy and W alt, w hen Roy was ag ain dejected over Mickey’ s faltering future.
W alt suddenly blurted, “W e’ll make them over with sound.” Roy had a
dif ferent version. He said that t hey had screened a cartoon aft er The Jazz
Singer ,  t he Al Jolson fi lm that is credited with being the first motion pi cture
to synchronize the spoken word and the image. “That’ s it. That’ s it,” W alt
allegedly said. “It looks realistic, it’ll be realistic. That’ s what we’ve got to
do. Stop  all these silent pictures.” As W ilfred Jackson remembe red it, W alt
first bro ached the possibility to his staf f at a gag meeting for  the second
Mickey Mouse, which most likely was held on May 29, 1928, at W alt’ s
house. E veryone was immediate ly ener gized, which may have been part of
W alt’ s calculatio n to keep his crew’ s spirits from flagging. Jack son said he
was so excited by the idea of a sound cartoon that he could no t sleep that
night.
W alt, however , was not the onl y animator thinking of sound. The Jazz
Singer ,  afte r al l, which  was acclaimed as having ushered in the sound  era,
had premiered the previous Octo ber , and the Fleischers had alre ady worked
with a sound sy stem called DeForest Phonofilm, while Paul T erry had a
synchronized sound film in production with the RCA Photophone sound
process. Even Mintz and W inkler were planning a sound project. But
deploying sound  was not just a matter of slapping a sound track onto a
silent cartoon, even though that was precisely what W alt wo uld later do