# Página 251  
women about town in the audience join merrily in humming it, just to
show you that they are dashing sophisticates.
J. P .  Mc Evoy , w riting for the New Y or k Daily Mirr or ,  agreed. “Personally , I
would like to get you into a corner and ask you if you have seen the ‘Three
Little Pi gs,’ and  I would like to go on asking you about one h undred and
fifty times,” he grumbled. “This  would give you some idea of what I have
been goi ng through for the last month [listening to ‘Who’ s Afrai d of the Big
Bad W olf?’].”
United A rtists, c aught short by the demand for the cartoon, had too few
prints and in s ome neighborhoods was forced to shuttle them between
theaters by bicycle messenger . They even began running French and
Spanish versions—anything they could get their hands on. One  New Y ork
theater s howed it for weeks, finally putting whiskers on a poster of the pigs
outside the theater and lengthening the whiskers as the run continued. That
fall, newspaper magnate W illiam Randolph Hearst personally  suggested
that there be a Thr ee Little Pigs  comic strip, an idea W alt said he would
entertain only if he got a full pa ge in the comic section. The film industry
took note as well. W alt was already a minor folk hero in Hollywood for
Mickey Mouse, but shortly after Pigs  h e was feted by the W riters Club,
where C haplin, who rarely performed in public, climbed onto a  small stage
and did a pantomime in W alt’ s honor and where toastmaster Ru pert Hughes
announced that he would read a  poem to W alt, took a stack of papers from
his pocket, sipped from a glass  of water , cleared his throat, and then said
simply , “‘W alt Disney…W ell, isn’ t he?’” as if there were nothing left to say .
The next year Pigs  won W alt another Academy A ward.
Oddly enough, between the cost of the film, which Geor ge Morris put at
$15,568, and the cost of the pri nts, which came to nearly $14, 000, Morris
worried that the studio might no t break even on the picture, and when UA,
taking a dvantage of the demand, began char ging as much for Pigs  as for
some of  its feature films, W alt  felt compelled to issue an apology to the
exhibitors in The Hollywood Reporter ,  saying that he had thus far failed to
cover his costs and needed the money .* B ut whether it turned a profit or