# Página 695  
1963, the Congress for Racial E quality , a civil rights group, was conferring
with Dis neyland of ficials about  the hiring of blacks and was t old that the
Disneyland boa rd of directors would only consider their requests, not
necessarily act upon them.
W alt certainly hated dirt and me ss. One of the spurs for creating the park,
of course, was the filth that W alt had so detested on his Sunday  amusement
park excursions with the girls. Disneyland was going to be almost eerily
clean—so much  so that cleanlin ess would become not only a hallmark of
the park but a kind of running joke about it. “It is calculated that a discarded
cigarette butt will lie dormant for no longer than 25 seconds before it is
pounced upon,”  one reporter later wrote of the famous Disneyland
sanitation crew . Another called the park a “Simonized Coney Island” that
“glistens in innocence not only  of discarded popcorn boxes a nd cigarette
packs but also of any least film of pavement dust or fadin g paint or
unpolished brig htwork, and in which one feels guilty [for] dropping a
cigarette butt, and relief at seeing it whisked instantly into a stylish little
dustpan by a juvenile lead eleg antly costumed as a period street cleaner .”
The park would never stay clean , a journalist predicted during a tour a week
after its opening . T o which W a lt riposted that it would stay clean because
“people are going to be embarrassed to throw anything on the gr ound.” This
was, after all, utopia.  
Now , as  the July 17, 1955, open ing neared, national anticipation grew . For
nine mo nths W alt had been promoting the park on his television program,
and AB C had taken out $ 40,000 worth of full-page newspaper
advertisements to ballyhoo the ninety-minute live telecast of the event, for
which t he network had marshaled what it called the greatest ever
concentration of  television equipment and personnel—twenty-nine cameras
stationed around  the park. ABC had already sold out the advertising in
March, and crews had been rehearsing every Sunday since M ay 22. The
interest in the pa rk was so intens e that in April, the studio reported, the staf f
counted 9,500 people stopping for information at the site one weekend,