# Página 751  
there are  two prominent Americans who are af fectionately known by their
first names—‘Ik e’ and ‘W alt.’” One African president continued his visit
even after his pu blic relations of ficer keeled over and died of a heart attack
while dining at the park’ s Plantation restaurant.
The pass ion of foreign dignitarie s to see what was now one of America’ s
landmarks was so intense that once it even triggered an i nternational
incident. Russian  premier Nikita Khrushchev was making a tour of America
in S eptember 1959. Khrushche v’ s wife Nina had seen a Disney film in
1942, found herself entranced, and requested that during the v isit she and
her family be allowed to see Disneyland. W alt and Lillian planned to
welcome the party and escort them around the park. But when Khrushchev
arrived in Los A ngeles from New Y ork, he was told that his se curity could
not be assured and that the trip to Disneyland would have to be canceled.
Khrushchev “ex ploded,” as The New  Y ork T imes  des cribed it. “I would very
much like to g o see Disneyland,” he shouted. “But then, we cannot
guarantee your security , they sa y . Then what must I do? Commit suicide?”
Continuing to boil, Khrushchev  asked the gathered journalists, “What is it?
Is there an epidemic of cholera or something: Or have gangsters taken hold
of the place that can destroy m e?” He was still fuming at a star -studded
luncheon in his honor at the T wentieth Century–Fox studio, L os Angeles
police ch ief W illiam Parker said, because Mrs. Khrushchev had passed her
husband a note while he spoke reminding him of the insult. “W e  have come
to th is town where lives the cream of American art,” he began as his voice
shook with indignation. “And  just imagine, I, a Premier , a Soviet
representative, when I came here to this city , I was given a plan—a program
of w hat I was to be shown and whom I was to meet. But just now I was told
that I could not go to Disneyl and.” He closed: “I cannot fin d words to
explain this to my people.”
But Kh rushchev went even further . Denied his visit, he to ld a Los
Angeles audience that he could return to Russia even faster than he had
arrived. “If you want to go on with the arms race, very well,” he warned.
“W e acc ept that  challenge. As for the output of rockets, well, they are on
the assembly line. This is the most serious question. It is one of life or
death, ladies and gentlemen. One of war and peace.” And this serious