# Página 258  
Now W a lt interpolated two more positions into the process, which again
seemed to contribute to quality at the expense of ef ficiency . He hired artist
Albert H urter , w ho had worked at the Barré studio in New Y ork and whose
style inclined to European illustration, to provide what were called
“inspirational d rawings”—drawings that were intended to  create an
atmosphere or suggest a look that would both guide and inspire the men
entrusted with actually animati ng the cartoon. It was a luxury that other
animation studi os obviously could not af ford. “Albert Hurter  had a big
room and a big desk and did exactly what he pleased,” Grim Natwick
remembered. “W alt would say , ‘W ell, we’re going to make an animal
picture, it’ll be located so and so. See if you can think of funny little
positions.’ And Albert would play around with it.”
At r oughly the s ame time W alt also broadened the responsibilit ies of the
background artists, who were themselves early specialists, into laying out
the entire cartoon visually prior to its being animated. Hence the name
layout artist.  As animation historian John Culhane put it, “[T]he director
‘saw’ the story in time and the layout artist saw it in space.” The latter
worked closely with the directo r to devise not only the backgrounds, as in
the past, but the characters and the staging of the scenes, even indicating
camera angles and edits, so that the animators, who had previously worked
primarily from the sketch artist’ s drawings, now had a clear directive to
follow .
After the director and the layout artist had settled on their approach, the
director would assign the animation, a procedure called the “handout,” and
the k ey animators would then draw the main poses. W alt’ s division of labor
into head animators, in-betweeners, and assistants may have been partly a
concession to economy , and it did conserve the key animators’ time for the
important thing s while relegating less important tasks to the less
experienced ani mators, especia lly since each cartoon required anywhere
from six thousand to seven thou sand drawings, with the bonus that having
assistants clean up the animatio n imposed a consistency between the work
of one key animator and another . But another , less mercenary motive also
lay b ehind W alt’ s thinking, one that meshed with the animation techniques
he was encouraging. W alt believed that by confining the chief animators to