# Página 642  
Roy tho ught that it had all begun with the model trains. Once W alt began
building his locomotive, Roy told an interviewer , “he always wanted to
build a big play train for the pu blic,” though it was unclear whether W alt
built the model trains because he had the park in mind or whether he had
the park  in mind because he bu ilt the model trains. W ilfred J ackson said
that W alt had first broached the idea for an amusement park during the
Snow White  premier e, where W alt had a dwarfs’ cottage erected outside the
theater as a display . As they walked past it, W alt told Jack son that he
wanted t o build a park scaled to children’ s size. Ben Sharpsteen said he first
heard about a park in 1940 when he accompanied W alt to New Y ork for a
demonstration of Fantasound a nd W alt discussed his plans for setting up
displays on a s trip of land a cross the street from the stud io between
Riverside Drive  and the Los Angeles River—“just somethin g to show
people w ho wan ted to visit the Disney Studio,” W alt said. Dic k Irvine, an
art d irector at the studio, remem bered W alt coming into the o f fice during
the war and de scribing a public tour of the studio that Irvine felt later
expanded into the amusement park. And John Hench, an animator and
layout man, recalled W alt in the 1940s pacing out the parking lot and
imagining the boundaries for an amusement park there.
As h e was prow ling shops and poring through catalogs for m iniatures,
and as he was m illing parts for his own railroad, he was thinkin g and even
talking in earnest about installing a scale-model passeng er train to
circumnavigate the studio and about landscaping its route with what he
referred to as a  “village.” In the spring of 1948 W alt had m entioned to
Harry T ytle the idea of constructing a train ride on the seven-acre Riverside
Drive pl ot and in the summer o f 1948 W ard Kimball was gushing to W alt
about the railroad concession at  an amusement park outside Sa n Francisco
that had  reaped $50,000 the previous year—“enough to pay for all the other
concessions in the park!” By the  time W alt and Kimball left for the Chicago
Railroad Fair that August, W a lt was pressing Casey Jones, his fellow
railroad enthusiast, to find him a locomotive for the “village” as an anchor
and was half-apologizing for the scale of his project: “While I know the
whole p lan I have in mind sound s quite elaborate, yet I feel the success of it
depends upon the project being very complete.” On the way back from
Chicago, W alt and Kimball m ade a two-day detour to He nry Ford’ s