# Página 677  
history: the innovator presenting himself as a traditionalist, the mortal
enemy o f folk life declaring himself its chief defender , the capitalist tricked
out as a populist.” “In the last analysis, W alt Disney’ s greatest creation was
W alt Disney ,” critic Richard S chickel would write. “In retrospect it is
possible to see that this is precisely what he was working at for  some forty
years,” even though, Schickel observed, none of his admirers seemed to
notice that their “loved object was less a man than an illusion created by a
vast machinery”—just like the animations and the theme park.  
But the real testa ment to Disneyland ’ s po pularity was neither W alt D isney’ s
recognizability nor the ratings nor the advertisers nor the generational union
it seemed to ef fect. The real testament was Davy Crockett. Since the mid-
1940s W alt had flirted with the idea of doing an animation on Davy
Crockett, probably as part of his prospective American heroes anthology ,
the T ennessee Indian fighter and frontiersman who later died defending the
Alamo in T exas. He had even recruited the realist painter Thomas Hart
Benton to participate, though B enton eventually begged of f, writing W alt
that “W a lt Disne y’ s stuf f is good  enough for my money as it is without a lot
of damn  painter s getting in it” and that he, Benton, was “too ‘set’ in my
ways to be very adaptable.” By the time Disneyland  was in its planning
stages, W alt wa s ur ging the Fro ntierland unit to come up wit h stories on
American heroe s. As Disneyland  p roduce r Bill W alsh remembe red it, the
staf f, un der the press of time a nd with a meeting impending, decided to
choose one hero and go with it. “And the first one we pulled o ut,” he said,
“by dumb luck, was Davy Croc kett.” W alt was suspicious—he  was afraid,
W alsh said, of “ too much fighting Indians”—but the unit elabo rated a long
treatment with storyboards, and W alt signed of f, albeit reluctantly . When
the direc tor Norman Foster retailed Crockett’ s adventures at length, W alt
asked, “Y eah, but what does he do ?” w hich W alsh described as “typical” of
W alt. “He never let you sit down  without pouring a little turpentine on your
rear end.”