# Página 815  
sponsored exhibit for T omorrow land, approved a new Audio-Animatronic
attraction called  Pirates of the Caribbean, and oversaw the com pletion of a
New Orleans Square that open ed in July 1966 and of which the New
Orleans mayor said, “It looks just like home.” T o which W a lt riposted,
“W ell, I’d say it’ s a lot cleaner .”
As for CalArts, W alt would regale his secretaries at the end of the
workday with word paintings o f what he intended to do there. But as with
almost everything in W alt Disney’ s life, there was action behind the talk. In
September 1965  WDP , at W alt’ s behest, gave the school thirty -eight acres
of its backlot at Golden Oak for  a new campus, and Roy was a dvising that
the s tudio donate additional mon ey for a detailed study and appraisal of the
project, while the Disney Foundation, a charitable or ganizatio n that W alt
had formed, was to contribute another million dollars. “[W]ith that kind of a
start we should be able to impress a lot of substantial people and get another
five or seven-and-a-half million  without too much dif ficulty ,” Roy wrote
W alt. Th ey did. The following April the federal government loaned the
school $ 4 million. In the meantime W alt raised $2 million from private
donors. It was a  sign of how dedicated he was to CalArts tha t W alt, who
could ba rely sit without wiggling, tapping, grimacing, and smoking, spent
two hours listening to an opera by a friend of one of the major contributors.
Even as  he was immersed in th ese projects, the animations remained an
ever -vexing pro blem. He continued to feel that they drained re sources that
might be tter be devoted to other  things, but he also felt obligated to produce
them sin ce they were so closely associated with the studio. Long before, he
had streamlined the system, appointing one supervising director (W oolie
Reitherman), one art director (Ken Anderson), four master animators (Frank
Thomas, Ollie Johnston, Milt Kahl, and John Lounsbery), and one storyman
(Bill Peet)—that is, one man w ho would write the screenplay , make the
storyboards, and record the voices where, as Peet himself complained, more
than forty men had once been a ssigned to these tasks. W alt als o sought to
streamline the physical process by putting the animators’ drawings directly
on the cel, without need of cleanup men or ink girls. Iwerk s had been
working fitfully  on this concept, essentially Xerographing the pencil lines
onto the  cels, at least since Fantasia,  and in the late 1950s he returned from