# Página 722  
Hurrell, despite the fact that Li llian’ s sister Hazel thought he had already
given fli ghty Ph yllis too many chances. W alt stayed at the studio for three
nights. He did not phone Lillian once.  
Mostly they traveled. W alt c alled these journeys “trips” rather than
“vacations”—when Milt Kahl, u pon W alt’ s return, once asked if  he had had
a go od vacation, W alt snapped, “Goddamn it, I’ve been working”—but
though h e often visited film locations and toured sites that might inspire
something for Disneyland, his ex cursions were not really for bus iness. They
were pri marily a way to leave the studio behind, as they had always been.
Lillian a nd W al t traveled constantly . They attended premieres  across the
country , they went to resorts, and they sailed on long Caribbean cruises; on
one trip they drove up and  down the Eastern Seaboard to revisit
W illiamsbur g, meet with various government of ficials and associations, see
dioramas at the Museum of the City of New Y ork, and consult with a
professor at MIT in Cambridg e. W alt even returned to Marceline in the
summer of 1956 to attend a dedication of a park in his name an d revisit his
childhood haunts with Roy .
On t he o ld prete nse that W alt ha d to supervise productions in E urope, he
and Lillian now made a yearly visit there too and stayed there for weeks,
sometimes months. For all his p rofessions that he was conducting business,
he s et his own agenda. Often he and Lillian drove themselves— on several
of the European  trips they wer e accompanied by W illiam Sprackling, the
president of Anaconda W ire and Cable, and his wife, who became the
couple’ s closest friends and who shipped their Cadillac overseas—and tried
to a void the glare. “I don’ t want any publicity at all,” W a lt wrote an
associate, expla ining that he had even taken to traveling under the name
Jones. “I just want to be myself and do and see what I’d like to.”
When th eir 1957  European trip ended, W alt wrote Ruth that “[w]e were
more th an glad to return home. ” They had seen “some wonderful places”
while touring the backcountry of England, France, Germany , Italy , and
Spain; W alt was especially cautious that his Spanish visit not be publicized