# Página 475  
—picketers carr ied signs declaring “I’m Popeye the Union Man” after the
Fleischers’ most popular character—until an election was final ly held and
the u nion was certified. (Max F leischer countered by moving the studio to
Florida and dissolving the unio n.) Next Herbert Sorrell, the head of the
Conference of Studio Unions into which the Screen Cartoonists Guild was
incorporated, ta r geted the cartoon department at Metro-Gold wyn-Mayer ,
lar gely because it was so small h e knew the studio wouldn’ t risk a strike for
it; then he aim ed at W arner Bros., where, under animation head Leon
Schlesinger , the  animators were earning 50 percent less than th e animators
had at MGM. S chlesinger sco f fed at Sorrell’ s threats, insisting that his
animators loved  him and that whenever they needed money , he  loaned it to
them. A  strike ensued, during which Schlesinger posted a sign on his door
saying he was of f on his yacht. W ithin a short time he calle d Sorrell to
make a deal, then asked him, “Now , what about Disney?”
That was the q uestion ringing in animation circles. In fact, after the
Fleischers settle d in 1937, an assistant animator named Dave Hilberman
told key  animator Art Babbitt t hat the International Alliance of Theatrical
Stage Em ployees (IA TSE), a rival union to Sorrell’ s, was launching a new
campaign to unionize the film industry , apparently including the Disney
studio. IA TSE was headed by two notorious thugs, Geor ge Browne and
W illie B iof f, wh o had been asso ciated with the Al Capone crim e family in
Chicago, and Babbitt was frightened. That same day he ran into Bill Garity ,
then hea d of production control, and when Babbitt mentioned his concerns,
Garity told him that IA TSE had already sent a delegation to the studio, and
if Babbi tt didn’ t like it, he should act. Babbitt met with Roy D isney , who
shunted him of f to attorney Gu nther Lessing. Lessing, eager to head of f
IA TSE, advised Babbitt to form what Lessing called “some sort of an
or ganization, preferably a social or ganization,” and of fered his  help. Early
in D ecember 1937 Babbitt, forty  employees, and Lessing met in sweatbox 1
at the Hyperion studio to create a federation to represent the studio’ s
employees in its relations with  management. The group held a general
membership meeting at the American Legion Hall in Hollywood on January
25, 1 938, at which Babbitt was elected president, and the or gani zation, now
called the Cartoonists Federation, applied for certification from the National
Labor R elations Board (NLRB),  which granted it in July 1939. B y this time