# Página 318  
Y et for all the daily hilarity and fun, the ease and informali ty at the
Disney studio had never been a ccidental or incidental. It was essential to
W alt Disney—even more essent ial now that they were making Snow White.
If the film, thr ough the character of Snow White, traced W alt’ s own
maturation, it also limned his own sense of insecurity within his family and
his o ngoing search for a community or surrogate family to which he could
belong a nd from which he could draw emotional sustenance—the family
that Snow White finds in the dwarfs. W alt Disney , then, was not just
producing a cartoon. In the very  or ganization of the studio and in the means
of produ ction, he was creating a n environment, the establishment of which
was in its way every bit as im portant a mission for him as the cartoon
feature itself. Put simply , the studio would replicate the cartoon.
From the Red Cross to DeMolay to Laugh-O-Gram to his first studio in
Los An geles on Kingswell A venue, W alt had always loved social
or ganizations, always loved to for ge people into a happy unit—“W alt’ s big
happy family ,” one reporter described the Hyperion studio. Some regarded
it as paternalism , and certainly h is management style contained an element
of that. “Dad wanted to take ca re of everybody ,” his daughter Diane said.
“He wa nted to know if an em ployee was sick or needed som ething. He
knew about everybody’ s person al lives.” From this same impu lse he made
sure tha t working conditions at the studio were exemplary . A s the rather
haphazard arrangement for Snow White  i ndi cated, the s tudio had no for mal
or ganization cha rt, just W alt’ s hu nches. It had no time clock to p unch either ,
because W alt had resented having to punch one at the Kansas C ity Film Ad
Co. Emp loyees could take three sick days in any given week w ith full pay
before anyone investigated, and  if the excuse was legitimate, they would
continue to be paid while they convalesced. Before Snow White  W alt
typically closed the studio in mid-August, giving his employees a long
vacation, and select employees  were granted even longer breaks. “I want
you to take advantage of this vacation period to the fullest exten t,” he wrote
Bill Garity , the onetime sound  engineer who became W alt’ s production
manager early in the summer of 1934. “Get out and go some  place—the
W orld’ s Fair is s till on—then there’ s Hawaii, Cuba, New Y ork,  Alaska and
many , many other places of int erest—anyway do something th at you will
enjoy an d come back to the Studio feeling great and rarin’ to work.” Even