# Página 713  
about it. I just thought, ‘That’ s it. He’ s going to do it and that’ s all there is to
it.’” (Fo r his part, W alt once told an animator who asked for a ra ise after the
man’ s w ife had  said they need ed more money , “Y ou listen to  your wife,
huh? I’d hate to tell you where I’d be if I had listened to my wife.”) Still,
Lillian had never been one to accept W alt’ s decisions meekly or his status
unquestioningly , and she admitted that he was always telling p eople “how
henpecked he is.” “Heavens, Mother had quarrels with h im!” Diane
recalled. “Good healthy ones. Nothing was ever under the su rface in our
family . If there were any irrit ations felt, there was an explosion.” And
Lillian was usually the one to explode.
She was unimpressed by him. Speaking of a negative magazine profile of
himself, W alt told Hedda Hoppe r that Lillian didn’ t care what reporters said
about hi m. “In fact, she usually agrees with anybody who writes things like
that,” he  continu ed. “I keep rep orters away from her . She’d gi ve them the
lowdown.” When Harry T ytle’ s wife mentioned to Lillian that W alt was a
genius, she cracked, “But how would you like being married to one?” “She
was sort of unc onscious, oblivious,” Diane said. “She moved in her own
circle of beauty parlor appoi ntments, reducing exercises, dressmaker
appointments, and occasional shopping sprees…. Always had to redecorate
the corner of some room. That was her life.” W alt called her “Madam
Queen.”
W alt was proud of her , proud o f the way she dressed and the way she
managed the household with so  little help, only a cook and, when the girls
were younger , Grace Papineau,  Lillian’ s sister , who lived wit h them and
cared for the gir ls when W alt an d Lillian were occupied or when the couple
traveled, though Diane thought  that having interlopers in the house, first
Lillian’ s sister Hazel and Haz el’ s daughter Marjorie, and then Grace,
contributed to family tensions.  And he was physically af fectionate with
Lillian as he was with his daughters, whether she invited his attentions or
not. He “always had his arm around her ,” Diane said. She thou ght of them
as “romantic.” He also tried to pacify her , if only to keep th e domestic
peace. H e took rumba or mambo lessons so he could dance wi th her when
they attended functions, and animator Frank Thomas remembered seeing
him inte ntly practicing steps behind a palm tree at one of them. And though