# Página 674  
Jerry-built as the show was, when Disneyland  premiered on October 27,
1954, it met wit h virtually unanimous acclaim, which was partl y a function
of the generally feckless fare on  television at the time and partly a function
of th e residual p ower of the nam e “W alt Disney .” The first program was a
kind of sampler . It began with  W alt describing his dream of Disneyland
before segueing into a preview of future programs and then to a showing of
the “laughing place” sequence  from Song of the So uth, Plane Crazy ,
Lonesome Ghosts,  and The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice,  th ereby  doing precisely
what W alt had warned against—simply recycling old material.
If the show sounded as if it were an extended commercial and looked as
if it had been tossed together randomly , it didn’ t seem to matter . The
program had just ended when Kintner , watching it in his New Y ork of fice
with Ge or ge Romney , the president of American Motors, a spo nsor of the
show , and a group of Romney’ s friends, received a call from an advertising
executive stakin g claim to the first sponsor vacancy . Critics were just as
responsive as the advertisers. “[I]f the evening’ s promise is fulfilled in
future weeks,” Jack Gould wrote in The New Y ork T imes  the next day , “the
rest of the television industry may decide to suspend operations between
7:30 and 8:30 W ednesday nigh ts.” V ariety  proclaimed that W alt Disney
“will prove a dominant figure in this season’ s television picture” and
predicted that he would “unque stionably push ABC into the to p 10 of all
and sundry rating services for the first time in years.”
V ariety  turned out to be right. Over the course of the season Disneyland
consistently attra cted over 50 percent of the audience in its time slot, and its
audience kept growing, its ratings climbing, until even its repeats outdrew
every program on television sav e the Lucille Ball situation com edy I Love
Lucy .  (Before Disneyland,  AB C didn’ t have a single program in the top
twenty-five.) Al l but one of those repeats that spring and summer posted a
higher rating than when originally broadcast. As far as the network was
concerned, Disneyland  gave ABC an identity that the fledgling company
had not had, and astonishingly it accounted for nearly half of th e network’ s
advertising billings. By April, with only twenty shows broadcast, Newsweek
was already calling it “an American institution”—the “first big-budget
television show consistently an d successfully aimed at the whole family ,”