# Página 799  
land, for example, might be a ‘retirement village’ for senior citizens, as it
would be similar to our project.”
Meanwhile the ongoing St. Lou is negotiations and the discussions with
Seagram’ s on developing Niagara Falls had become subterfuges. That
November , W alt , Sharon, Bob B rown, and a handful of execut ives flew to
St. Louis and then on to Nia gara Falls and W ashington, D.C., before
detouring to Florida, where W alt drove from T ampa to Ocala, looking the
land over . On th e way back to California they flew low over the Florida
coast to survey it, and as they headed westward, according to one account,
W alt conclusively decided that the park would be set in central Florida near
Orlando so that it wouldn’ t have  to compete with the ocean or th e gulf. That
same da y , November 22, during a refueling stop in New Orleans, W alt
learned that President Kennedy had been assassinated.
W alt would revisit Florida sever al times over the next six months, though
Robert P rice Fos ter , the vice pre sident of legal af fairs for Disneyland whom
W alt had entrusted with imple menting Card W alker ’ s plan to buy land,
thought that W alt seemed less interested in the prospective p ark than in
flying in his new Gulfstream jet, which the studio had bought that March. In
April, while W alt was attending the opening of the world’ s fair , Foster
headed to Miami to meet with a Florida attorney named Paul L. E.
Helliwell, who had come recom mended by Disney’ s New Y ork counsels.
Foster was so ca utious that he w aited hours to tell Helliwell, an old W orld
W ar II OSS of ficer himself, that W alt Disney was the client, and when
Helliwell recommended a realtor named Roy Hawkins to identify
properties, Foster didn’ t immed iately let him into his confidence either . In
fact, Foster began using the name Bob Price, lest someone trace him back to
the Disneys.
One by one that  spring and summer Foster tar geted properties a nd began
purchasing them  through a series of front corporations, nine in all, though
Roy risk ed exposure when he decided to go to Jacksonville himself to
negotiate the purchase of a part icularly lar ge and important plot. Still, the
company operated in secrecy . Only in June 1965, according to Foster , did
W alt assemble a group in his of fice, including not only the Project X