# Página 195  
bratty k id, at worst a dimin utive and sadistic monster ,” in Richard
Schickel’ s word s, or possessing a “scandalous element in him which I find
most restful,” in E. M. Forster ’ s. Indeed, some found Mickey too
suggestive. A board of Ohio censors rejected one Mickey cartoon in which
a cow was reading Elinor Glyn’ s scandalous novel Thr ee W eeks,  while the
midwestern Balaban & Katz theater chain objected to Mickey milking a
cow in The Karnival Kid,  to  which W alt protested that it has “never been
our intention to insert anything of a smutty nature,” but wrote, “I still
cannot s ee wher e anyone could take of fense at any of the ‘stuf f ’ contained
in o ur pictures.” Even so, M aurice Sendak found an “anarchy” and
“greediness” in Mickey’ s grin, the “gleeful beam [of] a sexual freedom,”
and said that when he designed his own W ild Things for the book Wher e the
W ild Things Ar e,  he based his drawings on this lascivious Mickey .
That las civiousness tied Mickey  Mouse to another motion pict ure icon:
Charlie Chaplin. Nearly every analysis of the early Mickey invoked Chaplin
and cited the correspondences between the two—th eir leering
aggressiveness, their impertinence, their sense of abandon, and especially
what film historian T erry Ramsaye at the time called “the cosmic victory of
the unde rdog, th e might of the meek” that they shared. W alt himself was
certainly aware of the similarities because he had consciously used Chaplin,
whom h e once called “the grea test of them all,” as a model. In devising
Mickey Mouse, he said, “W e w anted something appealing, and  we thought
of a  tiny bit of a mouse that would have something of the wi stfulness of
Chaplin—a little  fellow trying to  do the best he could.” Ben Sha rpsteen said
that W alt was constantly scr eening Chaplin films trying to pinpoint
Chaplin’ s basic appeal, and another animator , W ard Kimball, recalled that
W alt wa s “alwa ys showing us h ow Chaplin did a certain thing .” “He just
couldn’ t get him out of his syste m,” Dick Huemer said of W alt ’ s obsession
with Chaplin. “W alt kept the fee ling of this little droll kind of pathetic little
character who was always being picked on. But cleverly coming out on top
anyway .” When  Edward Steichen photographed W alt for V anity Fair ,  W alt
sent him a sketch of Mickey impersonating Chaplin.
But if W alt Di sney had thought of Mickey Mouse as an animated
surrogate for Charlie Chaplin,  Mickey’ s other father , Ub Iwerks, had