# Página 120  
Brooklyn Law School, but accounts diver ge from there. By one , he entered
the j ewelry business. By another , he entered the film business as a producer .
What all agreed upon was that h e could be cold, stern, and ruthless—in the
words of one employee, “a grim-faced man, with a pair of cold eyes
glittering behind the pince nez” who “never talked to the staf f. H e looked us
over lik e an admiral surveying a row of stanchions.” A cha in-smoking
tyrant w ith a swagger , he loved the trappings of authority too. His most
prized possession was a lar ge collection of police badges.
None of this would have mattered to W alt Disney except that just a
month a fter he signed his con tract with Mar garet W inkler , she married
Mintz, a nd Mintz moved into he r company , ef fectively taking control when
she beca me pregnant. W inkler had been forbearing, issuing gentle critiques
but also of fering encouragement. Mintz instead pressed constantly and
curtly for improvements in th e cartoons—they were too “jumpy ,” too
unevenly expos ed—and even temporarily dispatched his bro ther -in-law ,
Mar garet’ s broth er Geor ge, to Hollywood to supervise production. But by
the s ummer of 1924 W alt was complaining that as much as h e wanted to
make be tter cartoons per Mintz’ s dictates, he simply did not have the
resources to do s o. The cartoons cost nearly as much to make as  he received
in compensation, he wrote Mintz that August, and the studio found itself in
a “very tight place.” If Mintz could not send him an advance of $900 due on
their next picture—W alt of fered  to pay a forty-dollar premium—they would
not even  be able to get their last  picture out of the laboratory where the film
was being developed. That same  month he was forced to give the Davises a
promissory note  for V ir ginia’ s services. “W e need money ,” W alt wrote
again, clearly desperate, two we eks later . “I am perfectly willing to sacrifice
a profit on this series, in order to put out something good, but I expect you
to sh ow your ap preciation by helping us out.” W alt wanted the full $1,800
owed on the next film, minus what he called a “fair discount, ” but Mintz
did not have the money either and instead advised W alt to be patient.
Patience did not come easily . T hroughout 1924 the Disney brothers had
been forced to continue borrowing from Uncle Robert to meet their payroll,
loans of  $100 or $150 or $175,  which must have been especia lly dif ficult
for W al t after Uncle Robert’ s initial reluctance. They had little money