# Página 316  
umber mixture inside the shelves and in the corners to give an aged or
antique ef fect. Early Hyperion Spanish!”
When most recalled the studio, however , it was not as a kinder garten or
hacienda but as a college campus—“maybe an Ivy League campus,” said
one emp loyee, “ as there was a feeling of exclusivity .” For all  the intense
pressures to get the work done and do it well, hard backbreaking work that
required one to sit hunched over a hot drawing board hour aft er hour—in
fact because  of the pressures—the old spirit of collegiate jocularity and
informality prevailed, intensified, no doubt, by the relative youth of the
staf f; by  one report, the average age of the employees in the mid -1930 s was
twenty-five. W alt’ s secretary , Carolyn Schaefer , issued a mim eographed
newsletter each month called The Mickey Mouse Melodeon  that spread
studio g ossip. W ith W alt’ s blessing Pinto Colvig, a storyman and voice
artist, st arted a twenty-five-piec e studio band. At lunchtime the staf f might
head acr oss the street to the ann ex, where W alt had set up a voll eyball court
for a match, or they might hurry  to the vacant lot next to the soundstage or ,
when that was built upon, to the lot on Hyperion for a game of baseball,
with the married men usually playing the single ones. W alt often played too,
invariably getting on base thanks to his employees’ lar gesse, even though
he was still a clumsy athlete.  “If he was called out, he was furious,”
remembered one player .
As the vise tig htened with Snow White,  the sophomoric pranks only
became more frequent and elabo rate. Fred Moore, who had mas tered the art
of throwing the pushpins that held drawings to the storyboards, would take
two in each hand and fling them at the ceiling so that the ceiling tiles were
eventually dotted with pushpin s. Or W ard Kimball and fellow animator
W alt Ke lly woul d play football in the hallways. Or Kimball would arrive at
work dressed in a gorilla outfit. Or Milt Kahl would back up to the vent
leading from the lavatory to the in-betweeners’ bullpen and pass gas. Or
some pranksters  would put a goldfish in Art Babbitt’ s water cooler . One
storyman who kept a small pet turtle at the studio couldn’ t understand why
the turtl e grew so rapidly nor  why it then just as rapidly s hrank. The
fellow’ s colleag ues had substituted a series of other turtles for the pet. A
visiting reporter  described the studio as a “psychiatrist’ s heaven” and a