# Página 777  
character speaks alike, with a kind of vapid juvenility reminiscent of
comedies of twenty years ago.” Hayley Mills’ s parents chafed over the kind
of saccharine scripts she was being given and decided not to renew their
contract until, as Bill Anderson  relayed their concerns to W alt,  “they have
had the opportun ity to read the material involved and the role to be played.”
W alt, in  turn, felt that the Millses didn’ t know what kind of pi ctures were
right for their daughter , and he huf fed to Anderson that “I do n ot want my
name attached to the type of pic tures Mary [Mills] apparently wants Hayley
to d o.” Y et eve n W alt, for all his belligerence toward Hollyw ood’ s new
frankness, seemed to have misgivings about being stuck making puerile
movies. After watching T o K ill a  Mocki ngbir d  at a screening in his home,
he lamen ted, “T hat’ s the kind of film I wish I could make.” But he couldn’ t.
He w as W alt Di sney , and W alt D isney was now committed to m aking films
that were innocuous enough to be enjoyed by the entire family .  
As he pondered the future of h is empire, he thought of his own family’ s
security too. While in England, he had seen an article about the demise of a
company after its proprietor died, and, he wrote Roy , “it set me to thinking
about our own situation here of having all our eggs in one baske t,” meaning
having their assets tied up in Disney stock. W alt was concerned about what
would h appen if  his family were forced to sell the stock to pay estate taxes.
“When I’m up i n heaven playing my harp, I really couldn’ t put my heart
into it, if I thought I had left things in a mess down here!”
Roy , however , had another fin ancial concern. Back in 1953 he had
piloted both the deal between WED and WDP and the perso nal services
contract betwee n W alt and WDP through the board of directors over the
objections of three members, who eventually resigned, and over the
objections of the dissident stockholder who had brought suit against the
company . Now Roy worried th at the growth of WED over the years with
Disneyland and the world’ s fair and the lar ge sums of money that both it
and W alt were drawing from W DP might bring renewed and unwelcome