# Página 772  
As W alt approached sixty , with his hair and mustache beginning  to gray , he
was thin king again about his legacy—about what would happen to the
studio w hen he was gone. Storyman and sketch artist Bill Peet remembered
sitting a t the cof fee table in W alt’ s of fice discussing a project with him
when W alt, suddenly enveloped in sadness, rose, went to the w indow , and
stared out silently . “Y ou know , Bill,” he finally said, “I want this Disney
thing to go on l ong after I’m go ne. And I’m counting on guys like you to
keep it going.” Sometimes he would say that he was deleg ating more
responsibility to  his subordinates and continually reor ganizing them so he
would b e sure the company wou ld survive him, then was quick to add that
he w as in perfe ct health and ex pected to outlive them all. Other times he
seemed to despair of the company existing after he was gone. “They won’ t
be a ble t o handl e it, anyway ,” h e once told director Ken Annak in, speaking
of his executives. “So just let it fritter away .”
The studio, in an y case, was very dif ferent from the one he had  founded,
dif ferent even from the one he had constructed at Burbank. It was dif ferent
physically . W alt had added a third soundstage at a cost of $250,000 to house
the 90-by-165-f oot water tank for 20,000 Leagues,  and  he built a fourth
soundstage in 1958 both for tel evision and for the film Darby O’Gill and
the Little People  as part of a $1. 6 million studio expansion. Early the next
year the  studio purchased the 3 15-acre Golden Oak Ranch, about twenty-
five mile s from Burbank near Newhall, the site of California’ s first reported
gold stri ke, whic h the company used as a backlot for its television and film
productions and as a pasture for the studio’ s livestock. W alt kept buying
adjacent parcels until early in 1964 the holding totaled 726.5 acres.
If th e stu dio was  dif ferent physically , the men who now populated it were
dif ferent too. W ilfred Jackson and Ben Sharpsteen had both  retired, or
rather been retired—the last of the executive old guard who had worked on
Mickey Mouse and Snow White.  But then longevity had never mattered
much to W alt, o nly usefulness. As Marc Davis told it, W alt had even fired
W ard Ki mball after giving him a chance to direct Babes in T oyland  and then
ar guing with him over his approach. Kimball went to W alt “on bended
knee” asking to be reinstated,  and he was, but W alt relegated him to