# Página 189  
But the situatio n that February was not as dire as Roy and even W alt
seemed to think. For one thing, the recording studio had begun to generate
profits, s o much  so that the company occasionally borrowed from it to meet
its payroll and so much so that in that year ’ s federal census, while W alt
identified himself as a “producer ,” Roy identified himself as a “sound
recorder .” For another , and more important, Columbia Pictures, having
grossed nearly $400,000 on the first thirteen Symphonies and obviously
recognizing just  how much prof it it could earn if it distributed t he Mickeys
too, had surprisingly decided to step into the breach and take on Powers.
W ithin w eeks of W alt’ s returning to California, his attorneys had worked
out an agreement with Colu mbia and then successfully arranged a
settlement with Powers, though one attorney confessed that the settlement
papers were “complicated,” which was an understatement. Roy estimated
that Powers had made $100,0 00 in his two years of distributing the
Mickeys, but the old rascal w as not about to let W alt go c heaply . He
demanded $50,000, which Columbia had conceded to pay in ten monthly
installments secured by the Disneys’ overages from any source, and
retention of everything he had collected on the Mickeys to date. Roy later
bar gained this down to 40 percent of Powers’ s collections from exhibitors
to whom  he had already rented  cartoons and 25 percent from franchisees
who had already bought the rights to the cartoons, but this was minus
expenses of roughly $150,000  for negatives and sound equipment. In
addition, Powers was to receive W alt’ s share of the net profits from
Cinephone up to $62,000. Columbia would retire its note from percentages
on t he first fifte en Mickeys, which it was now authorized to redistribute,
and the first six Silly Symphonies, while the Disneys would receive 80
percent of the pr ofits on the rem aining Powers bookings from which he had
yet to collect rentals. The settlement was not particularly favorable for the
Disneys; legal fees alone had cost them $50,000. But Powers had left them
without an alternative. “While sacrifice burns me up,” Gunther Lessing
wired Roy , “I be lieve in straightening entire mess imperative an d less costly
in the long run.”