# Página 608  
begun meeting with screenwriter Edwin Justus Mayer in 1945, and Perce
Pearce h ad gone  to Indiana, where the film was set, that summ er to get a
sense of atmosphere, just as W alt had gone to Atlanta to soak up
atmosphere for Song of the South.  The actual filming, on location in
California’ s San  Joaquin V alley where the Indiana town was re-created,
began late in the spring of 1946. W alt was on the set for long stretches at
the beginning and then on weekends, making suggestions over Sunday
breakfast, though director Harol d Schuster , whom W alt had recruited from
T wentieth Century–Fox after s eeing Schuster ’ s horse movie, My Friend
Flicka,  said that W alt never pressed h im. “He left the reins firmly in my
hands,” Schuster claimed.
In postproduction, however , W alt was forced to retake the reins. He
wasn’ t p articularly happy with the outcome of the film and had decided to
rework at least one entire section, ordering Bill Anderson, who was
responsible for the budget, out  of the meeting at which he di scussed the
changes becaus e W alt didn’ t want to be encumbered by financial
considerations. B ut even as he reworked scenes, he was discour aged. While
preoccupied with his trains, he nevertheless spent another year on the
picture a fter the filming was co ncluded, finally deciding to add animated
sequences as he had done in Song of the South  and justifying them as
“figments of a small boy’ s ima gination.” As publicist Card W alker put it,
“He kne w he had a problem.” (It was to escape tensions on the film that he
had gone to Ha waii and then to the railroad fair .) The addition of the
animation prom pted “Mr . Harper” in Harper ’ s magazine to observe, only
half in jest and while the film w as still in production, “No good, certainly ,
can com e of breaking down the barrier that still protects live, three-
dimensional people from the inhabitants of Mr . Disney’ s two-dimensional
world w ho have been so firmly protected from the medioc re and the
phony”—a prote ction that had b een the point all along. Now they no longer
were.
But it wasn’ t on ly mediocrity from which W alt Disney himself needed
protection. In fact, So Dear to My Heart  wa s actually a  warmer , more
sincere, and, in most reviewers ’ assessments, better film than Song of the
South.  For Disney , the  problem was that it was a concession, an exerc ise in