# Página 75  
Illustrations, De signs and W indow Cards, Art W ork for All Advertising
Purposes,” he had, in his short time at the Slide Co., begun redirecting his
attention from commercial art and even from the dream of newspaper
cartooning. Indeed by one account that spring he had finally received the
of fer he had so l ong coveted—to  be a cartoonist at the Star  or Journal-Post
— only to reject it to stay at the Slide Co. That was because W alt Disney , a
young man who always seemed to be in the grip of some passion, had found
a new one: he had become as intoxicated with animation as he had
originally been with drawing back at the Benton School. “T he trick of
making things move on film is what got me,” he would tell an interviewer
years later .
W alt clearly loved the combina tion of drawing and technology . He had
always liked to tinker , and in hi s last spring in Kansas City before leaving
for Chicago he had even bought the parts to construct a car chassis with the
intention of putting Roy’ s old motorcycle engine under the hoo d, until Roy
inadvertently scu ttled the plan b y selling the cycle when he joined the navy .
But to the go-getter in W alt, and to the Disney in him, animation had
another appeal. It was a way t o make his mark since, unlike  newspaper
cartooning, anim ation was something that W alt thought he might do better
than anyone else because so few  people at the time were doing i t and so few
people had any expertise in it, and the idea of being the best, the most
noted, clearly appealed to him.
W alt Disney seldom dabbled. E veryone who knew him remarked on his
intensity; when something intrigued him, he focused himself en tirely as if it
were the only thing that mattered. Now animation mattered. That spring he
began an  intensi ve self-educatio n in the medium, using the Slide Co. as his
school. It might not have seemed a likely place to matriculate. T all, burly ,
and lantern-jaw ed, A.V . Cauger was physically imposing, an d he had a
gruf f voice and brusque mann er that further intimidated; one employee
recalled that A.V . would issue i nstructions or orders while simultaneously
spitting in the drinking fountain. But to those who got to kno w him, his
manner was less terrorizing than informal, and he ran his shop more or less
democratically , which meant th at W alt had extraordinary latitude for an
eighteen-year -old. He had been there only a relatively short time when he