# Página 800  
committee but the board of directors, to announce that the new park would
be built  and to describe its contours—a meeting Foster calle d “our own
constitutional convention.”
Of c ourse, all of  this was kept within the company . Even internal memos
on th e park were  numbered so th at they could be tracked; when, during one
Florida visit, a waitress recog nized him, W alt first denied that he was
indeed W alt Disney , then asked  her to promise not to tell anyone else who
he was. Publicly  W alt continued to disavow any interest wha tsoever in a
Florida theme park. “There are so many things we haven’ t done yet at
Disneyland,” he  told a reporter  for the Daytona News-Journal  that April.
“Right now , we’re getting ready  to spend $50 million in the nex t five years
to revam p our ‘T omorrowland .’” But by that time Disney had already
purchased 27,400 acres at a pric e of just over $5 million—abo ut one-tenth
the c ost per acre  of what he had spent on Disneyland twelve yea rs earlier—
with all the money coming from the studio.
Even state of ficials were to be kept in the dark. As late as August 1965
Roy received a call from an old  contact at Prudential who had  retired and
become chairma n of the Florida Development Commission aski ng if he and
the Flor ida gov ernor on the way back from a trade visit to Hong Kong
could meet with W alt and Roy at the studio to “sell you on the idea of your
possibly building an entertainment plant in Florida.” Roy cagily answered
that neit her he nor W alt would be available. “I fibbed a bit abo ut us being
away ,” he wrote W alt, because  “I think it would be premature for us to
expose o ur hand .” Both Helliwell and Hawkins, who had finally  been let in
on the secret, advised that Roy and W alt meet with the governor only in the
presence of county of ficials an d leading citizens of Orlando so that the
governor wouldn’ t be able to renege on any promises he might make.
But the company could conceal its plans only for so long. A reporter
from the Orlando Sentinel-Star  visited the studio with a press contingent
early tha t fall of 1965 and asked why W alt had been touring the Orlando
area, to which W alt, evidently  surprised, gave a rambling a nswer . “He
looked l ike I had thrown a bucket of water in his face,” she said. A few
weeks later W alt’ s secretary war ned him that the reporter , Emily  Bavar , was