# Página 1201  
the photo research and scanned the images, and Mar garet Adamic, who
provided legal clearances.
I also received encouragement  and assistance from the comm unity of
Disney scholars —and it is a community . V irtually all of them of fered to
help, we lcoming me into their ranks and sharing their interviews, their
documents, their contacts, and their insights. I owe thanks to Michael
Danley , Katherine and Richard  Greene, J. B. Kaufman, Jef f Kurtti, Les
Perkins, Alex Rannie, Rick Shale, and above all Paul F . Anderson, the
editor and publisher of the indispensable Disney journal Persistence of
V ision,  w ho not only pr ovided material from his own extensive archives and
supplied his informed perspectives on various issues but gave m e a personal
guided t our of W alt Disney’ s Los Angeles. I benefited great ly from his
expertise and counsel.
In Marceline, Missouri, Kaye Malins escorted me through h er house,
which w as once the Disney f armhouse, let me roam the acreage, and
recounted W alt’ s trips to the ar ea. Dan V iets, another Disney scholar , not
only accompani ed me on my visit to Marceline but gave me a tour of
Disney s ites in Kansas City , from the old Disney house on Bell efontaine to
the Laugh-O-Gram of fices in the now-empty McConahy Building. Dan
even pri ed a lar ge piece of plywood of f the McConahy door s o we could
stand, al beit pre cariously , in W alt’ s old business quarters. Barbara Babbitt,
Art Bab bitt’ s wi dow , pored through her photo collection to provide me with
images of her husband.
I a m also indebt ed to the many Disney employees, family members, and
acquaintances who submitted to lengthy interviews or provided
information. O f them I would single out for special th anks three
individuals: the late Harry T ytle , who worked at the studio for over thirty
years, most of them in an executive capacity , and kept a daily journal that
he w as k ind enough to let me peruse; Diane Disney Miller; and  again Roy
E. Disney .
I h ave not tallied the number of archives and libraries I visite d or with
which I corresponded, including presidential libraries, loca l historical