# Página 582  
distributing it. Then there was the subject matter . “They all say , ‘Who wants
to watch  seals playing house on a bare rock?’” Roy told W alt aft er returning
from a sales trip  to New Y ork. Though the film had been made cheaply—
for just over $100,000—W alt w as not about to let it disappear . As he had
done so many years before with The Skeleton Dance,  when he convinced an
exhibitor to preview the cartoon, he arranged to have the film shown at the
Crown Theater in Pasadena the last week of December 1948. T he audience
was spellbound. “It knocks the people right in their bloody  hat,” said
Disney a rtist Harper Gof f, who attended the first screening. But W alt wasn’ t
interested only in demonstratin g the film’ s audience appeal. By showing
Seal Island  f or a week at th e theater , W alt had qualified it for the Academy
A ward for Documentary Short Subject, which it won a few m onths later .
Now it was salable. When Sharpsteen walked into W alt’ s of fice the morning
after the  ceremony carrying the Oscar he had picked up for the studio, W alt
ordered his secretary to take it to Roy’ s of fice and “tell him to hit RKO over
the head with it.”
It w as th e first of what W alt wo uld call his T rue-Life Adventures, nature
documentaries th at brought W alt’ s old narrative skills to natural events, and
in its own way  it would prove just as revolutionary as his first sound
animation or Snow W hite. Sea l Island  w ould become the model not on ly for
Disney documen taries but for nature documentaries generally: a strong plot,
anthropomorphized animals with emotions imputed to them, and a musical
track tha t Jim Algar , who directed Seal Island,  com pared to the  music in the
Disney animations, which made the documentaries into real-life cartoons.
“[W]herever we saw a change we tried to take rhythmic natural action and
edit in such a f ashion that a m usical score could accompany it,” leading
some people to marvel, Algar sa id, at how they got the animals to perform
to the music. O n the other hand , while audiences marveled, these devices
prompted purists  to complain th at Disney had falsified nature in  the service
of his postwar k itsch—a complaint that would dog him for the  rest of his
life.* Bu t W alt for once seemed undisturbed. He had found a w ay to
combine enterta inment with education. He had won a small battle in what
was becoming a long losing war .