# Página 271  
But the reconceptualization and domestication that were intended to
“humanize” Mickey actually wound up neutralizing him by blunting what
few shar p edges  he had. Losing his angularity , he also lost his im pertinence
and chee k, so that where W alt had once compared him to the incorrigible
Chaplin, he now compared him to eager -to-please Harold Lloyd. Mickey
even lost the self-centered obliviousness that had made him so apt a figure
for the Depression. “T o me th ere was something perfect about the way
Mickey looked in the ’30s,” children’ s book author Jan W ahl once
remarked. “Wh en they gave h im that zoot suit and made him part of
California suburbia, I stopped paying attention to him. It was when he fell
into our ordinary world—that’ s when I think he lost his luster .”
But if Mickey M ouse was a vict im of pacification, he was a victim of his
own popularity as well: the tragedy of success. He had won that popularity
through an impish subversivene ss; he could only maintain it, W alt felt, by
becoming inof fensive. The rode nt who had begun life by bucking Minnie
out of an airplane and malicious ly pressing a pig’ s teats to make music was
now on his best  behavior . “If o ur gang ever put Mickey in a situation less
wholesome than sunshine,” W alt wrote in 1933, “Mickey would take
Minnie by the hand and mo ve to some other studio.” In deed, W alt
continued, “He is never mean o r ugly . He never lies or cheats o r steals. He
is a cle an, happy , little fellow who loves life and folk. He never takes
advantage of the weak and we s ee to it that nothing ever happens that will
cure his faith i n the transcendent destiny of one Mickey Mouse or his
conviction that the world is jus t a big apple pie…. He is Y out h, the Great
Unlicked and Uncontaminated .” T o which The Nation  grumbled that
Mickey had turned into “an international bore.”
W ith Mi ckey be ginning to fade as an aesthetic force, the studio needed a
new star , a cha racter who had been conceived with and internalized the
insolence that Mickey had lost —a character who could generate gags as
Mickey now could not and a character who was immune to the expectations
of civili ty that burdened Mickey . The new character that evolved, in fact,
would become a foil to Mickey—the unbridled id to his anodyne ego. For a
studio th at was already becomin g exasperated with its star , he was the anti-
Mickey , or rather all the things that Mickey had been and more.