# Página 119  
( Alice the Jail Bir d ), and Julius who attached the “idea” balloon that
billowed above his head to one end of a dachshund and the dachshund’ s
own “idea” balloon to the other end to make the dog into a dirigible ( Alice’ s
Balloon Race ). Many of these gags—particularly Julius’ s ingenuity with his
detachable tail, his worried pacing back and forth, and the big question
mark that sprouted over his head when he ruminated—were directly cribbed
from Fe lix at the distributor ’ s insistence, essentially turning  the Alice
comedies into not-so-thinly veil ed Felix cartoons. At one point the likeness
between Julius and Felix was so  close that W alt warned his staf f they were
flirting with copyright infringement.
Y et for all their derivativeness and for all the concessions that W alt made
to W ink ler , subjugating his creative instincts to hers, the Alice comedies did
express a fundamental vision of W alt Disney . Unlike Out of the Inkwell,
where Koko cavorts in a ph otographic reality that is obdurate and
unyielding, in the Alices a real girl enters a fantasy of her own devising—a
pliable world that, whatever the girl’ s misadventures there, always finally
conforms to her desires and J ulius’ s machinations and in which chaos
ultimately yield s to control. And in creating this situation, W alt was also
creating through his cartoons a metaphor of liberation and po wer . If the
Fleischers suggested the implacability of the physical world, W alt suggested
the malleability  of one’ s own psychological world into which one could
escape as Alice does. In W alt’ s world one was always eludi ng capture,
always t rying to keep the intrus ions of reality at bay . But as bel eaguered as
they often were, the denizens of W alt’ s world were neverthele ss free and
omnipotent—so long as they stayed there, so long as the world remained
intact, so long as they kept themselves separate from the real world.  
And yet, sadly and eventually disastrously for W alt, reality did intrude on
the D isney Bros. and kept intruding in the form of a man named Charles
Mintz. Mintz, thirty-four years o ld at the time he and W alt Disney met, was
something of a mystery even to  those who claimed to know him. He was
born in Y ork, P ennsylvania, of German parents and was graduated from