# Página 793  
would express her disappointm ent in the film, apparently to  those who
disliked W alt Disney .)
The pub lic was no less enchan ted. Though the film cost $5.2 million,
more than Disney had ever spent on live action, it would gross nearly $50
million worldwide, $30 million in the United States alone, boosting the
company’ s gross that year to b etter than $100 million where, ten years
earlier , i t had never exceeded $10 million. When it was shown in Moscow ,
the government  had to convert the Sports Palace into a theater and
welcomed eight thousand viewe rs at each of two screenings. The film was
nominated for thirteen Oscars, including Best Picture, and it won five—for
Best Spe cial V isual Ef fects, Best Score, Best Song (“Chim Chim Cher -ee”),
Best Editing, and Best Actress, which was a vindication for Julie Andrews
since Audrey Hepburn had not  even been nominated for My Fair Lady .
“That lovely statue—which I w ill find hard to believe in my p ossession—
would not be there at all if it hadn’ t been for your help,” And rews wrote
W alt aft er the ceremony . “I just  wish with all my heart that we had bagged
an O scar for ‘b est film’ too! I t so deserved it.” W alt, howev er , seemed
resigned to the fact that, not being a member of the Hollywood
establishment, h e couldn’ t win that award. ( My Fair Lady  did.) “Knowing
Hollywood, I never had any hope that the picture would get it,” he replied
to A ndrews with a touch of self-pity . “As a matter of fact, Disne y has never
actually been part of Hollywood , you know . I think they refer to us as being
in that cornfield in Burbank.”
It ha d been a very good year , and W alt was having to deny rumo rs that he
might fi nally sell the studio and  the theme park to CBS and re tire, telling
columnist Hedda Hopper , “W ith the business ‘Mary Poppins’ is doing,
Disney m ight m ake an of fer to buy CBS.” Still, W alt confessed  to another
journalist that, far from reducing the pressure on him, Mary Poppins  had
actually increase d it. “I’m on the spot,” he said, sounding very much the
way he had after Snow White.  “I have to keep trying to keep up to that same
level. And the way to do it is not  to worry , not  to get tense, not  to think, ‘I
got to beat Mary Poppins,  I got to beat Mary Poppins .’…The way to do it is
just to go of f and get interested in some little thing, some little idea that