# Página 537  
He h ad no harbor . If the studio’ s mission suf fered during the w ar years, so
did W al t Disney’ s family . Even before the war had placed such heavy
demands on him, Lillian and the girls had always been subordinated to the
studio. W alt made attempts to m ollify them. Lillian often accompanied him
on his trips east and even to Mexico, and he was as attentive a parent as he
could possibly be under the circumstances, still taking the girls to the studio
on weekends, where they follow ed him from room to room, or t o the airport
to see the planes take of f and land, or to the train station where he would
put h is e ar to the track and listen  for the train the way he had when he was a
boy in Marceline. And he bought them a cocker spaniel puppy , T af fy , that
he a dmitted he a nd Lillian seemed to appreciate more than the girls. When
he w as feeling self-important, i t was the girls, he said, especially serious
ten-year -old Diane, who could give him a look that “brings me of f my high
horse.” But despite his very real devotion, the press of business and the
need to decompr ess from it made it dif ficult now for him to be as engaged a
father as he wou ld have liked. “ Last Sunday was the first time in months I
didn’ t li sten to the radio,” he w rote Deems T aylor early in 1944. “For a
change I took m y oldest daughter horseback riding and later on played a hot
game of tag with the both of them in the yard.”
The best times n ow were the va cations at the Sugar Bowl ski area or at
the L ake Arrowhead resort ninety miles east of Los Angeles—o r better still
at the Smoke T ree resort in Pa lm Springs, where even before the war he
would spend several weeks with the family each spring, usually shuttling
back and forth to the studio every few days, and where he typically spent
Thanksgiving with Lillian and the girls during the war . Lillian said he loved
the “ope nness” of Palm Springs, but it clearly wasn’ t only the physical
openness of the hot, flat expans e of desert with the purple mountains in the
distance that he appreciated. It was, no doubt, the absence  of feeling
suf focated by the studio and th e overwhelming government wo rk there. It
was the freedom from having to tend to a thousand details about which he
didn’ t really care but for which he knew he would be held responsible.
By 1944 the wo rkload hadn’ t lifted, but W alt’ s sense of commitment had.
He had become so cavalier that when Dave Hand, who had been W alt’ s
primary production associate for years, tendered his resignation, W alt,