# Página 65  
everywhere. The very afternoon that Pershing was pulling out, September 3,
1919, W alt was  leaving Paris f or Marseilles and the voyage back to the
States. (Maas had already left w ith the puppies.) It was not an easy passage.
A dock strike prevented him from sailing as scheduled. He spent the next
twenty-three days waiting out the strike by going to Nice, where the
accommodations were cheaper and the workers friendlier , and  killed time
by taking the streetcar each morning to Monte Carlo. He finally sailed on
the SS Canada  with a group of nurses, doctors, and correspondents
returning from the peace conference. Progress was slow . Due t o the strike
the Canada  had  no car go a nd little fuel, and not until the ship reached the
Azores was it able to take on coal. The ship was not long back out at sea
when it was hit by a savage st orm. The Canada  finally limped into New
Y ork Ha rbor on October 9. W alt  was dischar ged the next day and was back
in Chicago the day after that.
After nearly a year away he returned in high spirits, but they were
quickly crushed. He hunted down Maas to retrieve his dog, only to find that
the pupp y had died of worms or  distemper during the crossing. As for their
trip down the Mississippi, Maas had met a girl, gotten a job, and abandoned
his plans for adventure. W alt was even more disappointed by Beatrice. She
had written him faithfully while  he was in France; he had kep t the letters.
As h e prepared to leave Paris, h e had bought perfume and blouses for her .
But when he arr ived in Chicago, he later said, he was shocked to hear that
she had gotten married. (In fact, though W alt would always insist that his
girl had betraye d him, Beatrice was not married yet. She would not marry
until Ap ril.) Devastated by the n ews, he never even bothered to  see her but
instead s aved the presents for his sister -in-law in Kansas City and declared
himself “through with women.”
Added t o all these disappointments was another . W alt had saved nearly
six hund red dollars from his earnings in France, including three  hundred in
winnings from a crap game in Neufchâteau, and he had sent most of it home
to be  put in the bank until his return. Now he considered taking the money
and staking himself while he trie d to land a job as an artist. Elias was aghast
at hi s son’ s impracticality . “He never understood me,” W alt lat er said. “He
thought I was a black sheep. This nonsense of drawing pictures! He said,