# Página 150  
without a contract, there was no remuneration. “W e worked night and day ,”
Lillian r ecalled. “W e ate stews a nd pot roasts, which luckily we re cheap in
those da ys. W e were down so lo w that we had a major budget c risis when I
tripped on the garage stairs and ruined my last pair of silk stockings.”
Though Les Clark would later date the real advance of animation to the
inception of Mickey Mouse, the first completed cartoon, which was
intended to be th e studio’ s salvation, provided no evidence of it; W alt’ s own
children, seeing Plane Crazy  yea rs later , would be astonis hed by how
primitive it looked. Mickey was  crudely drawn with lines for legs and arms
sticking out of his circular torso, and the scenario, equally crude, was
lightly a dapted f rom Oswald cartoons like T r olley T r oubles,  only here it is
an airpla ne, jerr y-built from a flivver , that careers out of control. As for
Mickey’ s person ality , his main characteristics are a raw ingenuity and a
sadistic determination; he yanks the tail feathers of f a turkey for his plane’ s
rear stru t and later grabs a cow’ s udder attempting to hoist himself back into
the cock pit. In slightly lesser measure, he also proves to be aggressive,
lecherous, and chauvinistic, tugging at his lady mouse, Minnie—she was
named, W alt is said to have admitted, after Minnie Cowles, D r . Cowles’ s
wife—for a kiss and forcing her to leap from the plane to  avoid his
advances, after which the plane corkscrews and crashes. Unchastened when
he sees her float to the ground using her bloomers as a parach ute, Mickey
laughs a t the predicament and gets his comeuppance when h e heaves a
horseshoe she has given him, and it boomerangs to hit him on the head.
But as uninspire d as it was, W alt moved rapidly to sell it because he had
to. V irtually as soon as it was finished, he set up appointm ents in Los
Angeles with Felix Feist and H oward Dietz of Metro Pictures, though he
was also lugging it around town to distributors and theaters hoping to
generate a buzz. One Glendale exhibitor recalled W alt personally taking the
can of film dow n to the theater  and convincing him to show the cartoon,
which h e did, asking the audi ence to applaud if they liked it. (As the
exhibitor remem bered it over twenty-five years later , “It was applauded
more than the fe ature film.”) According to Iwerks, W alt also pr eviewed the
cartoon at a Hol lywood theater , coaching the or ganist to provid e the proper
accompaniment. At the same time he made an arrangement on May 21 with