# Página 50  
it to  clas s. When one of his classmates screamed, the teacher r ushed to his
desk and slapped him on the  cheek. W alt, though, was a nything but
resentful. “I loved you all the more for it,” he wrote the teacher  years later ,
suggesting just how attention-st arved he really felt. And when every other
boy in his seve nth-grade class took manual arts, W alt opted instead for
domestic science, essentially ho memaking, with the girls, carrying a little
blue bag with his supplies. Eve n W alt Pfeif fer found this unus ual. “[T]he
kids used to m ake fun of him carrying this bag around ,” Pfeif fer
remembered. “[T]hat kind of shows you that he was a little out of the
ordinary .” But Ruth said that rather than feeling chastened, W alt loved
being th e only boy in his class. “He used to come home and t ell all about
the fun he had there.”
It may have been a sign of ju st how much W alt desired a sense of
community , of belonging, espe cially after losing the support he felt in
Marceline, that he would look b ack on his days at the Benton School fondly
and ofte n—not for the education he received there but for the warmth he
felt. He recalled the principal, James Cottingham, who thought nothing of
wandering into a classroom and  interrupting the lesson with a story , and he
recalled the teachers—especially Miss Daisy Beck, the one w ho slapped
him for having brought the mouse—who demonstrated their concern even
though W alt was, by his own de scription, a “laggard.” (He would continue
to c orrespond with several of them until their deaths.) Of Daisy Beck
particularly , he cited the “great patience, understanding, and incredible
faith” she lavished upon him . The paper route prevented W alt from
participating in after -school activities, but he frequently recounted how
Beck, w ho coach ed the school’ s championship track team with C ottingham,
ur ged him one recess to try ou t. W alt wound up winning a medal on the
sixty-pound relay team, and probably because he was never much of an
athlete, h e alway s cherished the memory and Beck’ s role in it, n ever failing
to cite it whenever he discussed his days at Benton.
Most of  the time, though, young W alt Disney was secluded in his own
world—away fr om the route and Elias and school. The P feif fers and
performing provided one escape  from his vexations. Drawing continued to
provide another , more powerfu l one. He had never stopped drawing. In