# Página 823  
W alt’ s l eft lung and immediately ordered him into St. Joseph’ s Hospital,
directly across the street from the studio, for sur gery . Lillian, who phoned
Diane nearly every day , was at her kitchen door the next morning. “They
took an x-ray of your father ’ s lung,” she told her daughter , “and  they found
a lum p t he size of a walnut.” Th e of ficial press release said that W alt was in
the h ospital to under go tests and  to be treated for the polo injur y . The truth
was that W alt almost certainly had lung cancer .
He had smoked for years, since his days with the Red Cross in France,
chain-smoking, nervously smoking, his fingers stained from the nicotine,
his voice raw and hoarse, and almost every conversation was punctuated
frequently by his throat-cleari ng. “I just can’ t picture him  without a
cigarette,” Diane would recall. His hacking cough was dreaded not only
among his employees, who had long regarded it as a kind of klaxon of
W alt’ s impending arrival, but among his own family . Sharon had once
asked him not to attend a school play she was acting in because  she said if
she heard him c ough, she would for get her lines. Lillian said that W alt had
“burned more furniture and m ore rugs and more everything with his
cigarettes than anybody I ever knew ,” and Diane claimed tha t one could
always identify W alt’ s butts in an ashtray because he would smoke the
cigarettes down to the last quarter -inch, until he could barely  hold them.
“He would for get to put them out,” she said. “He would light them and get
carried away with what he w as thinking about and just hold them.
Sometimes he would hold them in his mouth or in his hand and get an ash
on it two inches long.”
He was often encouraged to qu it. At one point he switched to a pipe,
which h e had smoked as a youn g man; then when the pipe burned a hole in
his pock et, he summarily decided that pipe smokers were, a s Joe Grant
remembered it, “too slow” and “laid back,” and he abandoned the pipe.
Early in  1957, when Gunther Lessing celebrated his first anniversary of not
having had a c igarette, Lessin g made a point of telling W alt, but W alt
wasn’ t interested. When doctors came to the studio to lecture the staf f on
the hazards of smoking, W alt wouldn’ t attend. One Christmas, Diane
bought h im two cartons of filtered cigarettes, thinking they wo uld at least
be better  for him than the filterl ess ones he smoked, and W alt promised her