# Página 243  
it. W alt’ s animated reality would not only be more outsized than real life, it
would be simpler , clearer , sharp er , and finally better . “Our actors must be
more interesting and more unusual than you and [me],” Ham Luske, one of
the stud io’ s top animators in th e 1930s, advised in a dictum to the staf f.
“Their thought process must be quicker than ours, and their uninteresting
progressions from one situation  to another must be skipped.” And in this
may have been the nub for W alt Disney . For all the prospective commercial
benefits of animated realism, it had this deeply personal benefit for a man
who had spent his young l ife creating an alternative reality as a
compensation for the hurts he f elt he had suf fered: realism furt her allowed
him to simplify and perfect his world and intensify his control over it.
Realism allowed him to create a wonderful world of the plausibly
impossible.  
And wh at was realism without color? Even before he had begun exploring
sound, W alt Disney had been captivated by the idea of color animations. He
was so eager to improve the vis ual image of his animations tha t in January
1930 the studio began using the more sensitive positive film stock rather
than negative even though it co st them $1,000 more per cartoon. Shortly
thereafter W alt assigned Bill C ottrell, then in the camera dep artment, to
conduct an experiment for an atmospheric Silly Symphony titled Night.  At
W alt’ s instruction, Cottrell put silver nitrate on the film to see what ef fect he
could ac hieve, then printed the cartoon on blue stock to imbue it with an
inky ton ality tha t approximated  the color of the night sky . A fire sequence
was prin ted on red stock, and an underwater scene on green. “I guess he
was hoping that something wo uld come up that we could do something
[with] that would create a color picture,” Cottrell later said.
W alt des perately wanted to press on, though the technology was lagging.
“I am convinced that good color , not too hard on the eyes, would be of
value to a carto on subject,” W alt wrote one prospective color laboratory ,
“however , all samples of color p rints that I have seen to date w ould detract
rather th an add anything to a ca rtoon.” Still, W alt kept searching, and when