# Página 440  
some other mechanism—but he was sure he would do it. If this was W alt
Disney’ s utopia, then everyone at the studio would be part of it.  
What had made this sort of discussion possible was W alt’ s anticipation of
some return—he was uncertai n of how much—on Pinocchio  after its
seemingly endless problems a nd delays. A week after the meeting on
February 7, 1940, Pinocchio  prem iered in New Y ork, eightee n months after
its o riginal scheduled release da te. (W alt, citing the recent move  to the new
studio, had begged of f attending the gala.) But the delay hadn’ t muted the
critical reception. If in the critic s’ eyes Pinocchio  had n’ t quite the  heart of
Snow White  or that film’ s tight narrative, th ey recognized that it did have
more breadth and was far bett er animated, sometimes breathtakingly so.
“‘Pinocchio’ tops any animated cartoon I ever saw ,” Los Angeles T imes
critic Arthur Miller wrote. Fran k Nugent in The New Y ork T imes  called it
the “ happiest event since the war” and “superior to ‘Snow White’ in every
respect but one: its score.” Still, he concluded, it was the “best cartoon ever
made.” O tis Fer guson, writing in The New Republic,  found it episodic but
thought it “brings the cartoon to a level of perfection that the word cartoon
will not cover . W e get around th e problem of no old word for a new thing
by s aying, it’ s a  Disney .” Howard Barnes in the New Y or k Heral d T ribune
went even further . He called Di sney “infallible.” Congratulating W alt after
the opening, Stuart Buchanan, the studio’ s casting director as  well as its
musical director , said that if W alt had been there, “any worries you may
have ha d about the success of Pinocchio would have ended. T he reviews
speak fo r thems elves but I have  never seen a more appreciative audience.”
He pron ounced himself “proud to be part of the Disney or ganization.” Even
Roy , wir ing W alt on his way to New Y ork to discuss the issue  of stock to
employees, seemed pleased: “Everything from my viewpoint is going ahead
OK in every way .”
But W alt did worry—and rightfully so, it turned out. Despite the ef fusive
reviews, attendance was well below that for Snow White,  and by April,
Geor ge Morris was already warning that the estimated revenue from