# Página 117  
Iwerks,” though  no one but Iwerks would have regarded the  change as
significant. He was still meek, withdrawn, inexpressive, and monosyllabic.
“Where two words would barely suf fice, he used one,” a colleague once
remarked of him. But there was one change, and it was important. From his
training in Kansas City he had b ecome a deft and rapid animator , and over
the follo wing months that summer he assumed an increasing am ount of the
workload from W alt, who had begun to doubt his own artistic skills. “I
never made a drawing that I liked,” he would tell a reporter years later .
The cha nge in Iwerks led to a change in the cartoons. Partly as a result of
Iwerks’ s hiring, the emphasis in  the series shifted from Alice to her cartoon
compatriots, and  by late summe r W inkler was even suggesting that W alt do
away with the l ive opening and closing entirely , even though  this would
make th e films more dif ficult and expensive to produce. At the same time,
W alt and Iwerks began experimenting with ways of improving the live
action–animation combination, using what was called a “matte,” a cutout
that could be placed over the camera lens to block of f areas where the
animated figures would be, rather than photographing Alice against the
white tarpaulin.  By August W alt was already assuring W inkler that they
were working to make the “girl stand out plain and distinct when she is
acting with the cartoons,” and that the photography would be “good, if not
perfect,” in future productions . He added that they would endeavor to
“make nothing but sure-fire laugh-getters.”
But for all W alt’ s continuing as surances of improvement, and for all his
genuine desire to make outstanding films, the Alice movies, even with
Iwerks’ s contributions, were only slightly better than routine. “W alt’ s
concept of the photography of  live action was about on a par with the
average box camera enthusiast,” one animator recalled, “and Iwerks’ s
animation was no match for the  sophisticated drawings of Dick Huemer ’ s
[the Fle ischers’ main animator] Koko.” It wasn’ t just the c omparative
crudity of the p hotography and drawings that marked these films. They
were als o imitat ive and unimaginative. How much this may have been the
result of  W alt’ s inexperience or own lack of imagination is dif ficult to say .
W inkler continuously stressed broad gags at the expense of story or
personality and continuously pressed him to watch other animations, even