# Página 166  
now on. ” By the end of the month Giegerich had finalized several states’
rights ag reements, including up state New Y ork for $4,200. A few weeks
later he sold the foreign rights to the Mickey Mouse series, a nd a month
after that he sold western Pennsylvania, Michigan, W isconsin, and
Cleveland and was about to sig n contracts for Minnesota and Illinois. By
May Po wers’ s California representative had signed up the entire W est
Coast. “W e give them the stuf f,  and we won’ t have to worry m uch,” W alt
would write confidently to his p artners, oblivious to the fact tha t he was in
Powers’ s hands and that Powers, given his track record, was not to be
trusted. “[A]ll we want to worry about is the pictures.”
III
He wasn’ t home long. Since  Powers had no recording c apability in
California, by the end of January  W alt was on his way back to New Y ork to
score tw o more Mickeys and to promote other projects. Having had Oswald
wrested from him, W alt was already worried that he would be too
dependent on Mickey and that if he didn’ t diversify , he would be putting
himself and the studio at risk. Before returning to New Y ork he  had begun
considering a series of one-re el live-action talking comedies and had
written his old investor John Cowles asking if he might be i nterested in
financing it. (He even stopped o f f in Kansas City to consult with Cowles on
his way to New  Y ork.) At the same time, he was also working  on another
cartoon series, one without a single central character , that he hoped would
be suf fic iently d if ferent from the Mickeys that it could be run in theaters
that competed with those showin g the Mickeys, providing him w ith another
stream of revenue.
The idea  for the new series had originated with Carl Stalling the previous
September when  W alt visited him on the way to New Y ork, an d W alt had
apparently floated it to distributors during his stay . What Stalling had
proposed was a “musical novelty”—a cartoon that began  with the music
and had the action animated to it. And he had a subject for the first
installment as well. As a child S talling had seen an ad in The American Boy
magazine for a d ancing skeleton and had badgered his father to  give him a