# Página 133  
And if it was dif ficult to play the young mogul at the studi o, it was
impossible to do so at home. He and Lillian had returned from their
honeymoon to a tiny apartment  on Melbourne A venue near th e Kingswell
studio that faced out on an alley . “I remember I was so unhapp y because I
had never lived in an apartment  before,” Lillian said. “I was used to homes
in Id aho where you could step out of your front door and be in the open.”
Though W alt received a monthly allowance from the company for his car , it
was not until the  next year , when the couple moved several blocks south to
an apartment on Commonwealt h A venue of f Sunset Boulevard, that they
were able to buy furniture of their own.
If the humiliations and scrimp ing weren’ t enough, yet another new
tension arose—one that in its way was even more significant than the
problems with Mintz, though i t flowed directly from them. While W alt
struggled with his finances and with Mintz, he was also, for the first time,
beginning to struggle with his staf f, which throughout 1926 still numbered
fewer than ten, including the janitor . W alt had always been fun-loving,
collaborative, and informal—a big kid. According to one employee, the
crew wo uld gather in the of fice or in W alt’ s apartment and bruit  about gags.
“W alt w ould hav e an idea,” he recalled, “—well, let’ s let Alice be a fireman
in th is one, or let’ s let Alice go fishing, or whatever it was. An d then we’d
work up  whatever the type of thing was, fire gags or fishing gag s. And then
W alt wo uld put them all together to tell the story . He’d try to come up with
an idea of continuity .” When ani mating, they would sit in one room, side by
side, a group of comrades, with W alt supervising and timing the scenes. Of f
the j ob, the grou p frequently socialized together , spending New Y ear ’ s 1926
driving down to T ijuana in W alt’ s Moon roadster and Roy’ s Oakland.
But tha t winter the atmosphere at the studio suddenly sobered and
soured. The pressures from Mintz, the financial stranglehold, and W alt’ s
own obs ession with improving  the animations had changed him from a
reckless young man to a marti net, pushing, prodding, provoking. Having
always to appease Mintz, he now made the staf f appease him. Everyone
seemed to notice the change in  temperament—the change fro m jovial to
tense an d snappish. Several cited a “clash of personalities.” “I made
mistakes,” remembered Isadore “Friz” Freleng, a veteran of the Film Ad