# Página 311  
scene or set of scenes that they were to continue to revise and refine in
conjunction with the animators.
By the time he began making assignments, W alt had settled on four
supervising animators—Luske, Moore, T ytla, and Fer guson—who would be
responsible for scenes and to w hom the other animators would report. He
still needed a su pervising director to coordinate the supervisin g animators
and mak e certain that the film was of a piece and not a collection of scenes
with distinctive styles. Initially , he appointed an old animator -turned-
storyman, Harry Bailey , because, Dick Huemer surmised, Bai ley was tall
and handsome and W alt was impressed by good looks. When Bailey
faltered, W alt approached Bill Cottrell, his longtime employee and at the
time the suitor of Lilly’ s sister ,  Hazel. Cottrell admitted that Dave Hand,
who wa s directing shorts and w ho was a tough political infighter , wanted
the a ssignment, so W alt turned to him. (Disappointed, Cottrell  said that if
W alt had  really wanted him to direct, he would have said no to Hand.) Hand
said that  “all the key animators were thought of as ice cream su ndaes, and I
was described as another one,  except with the cherry on top,” but he
modestly emphasized that “I was honestly never conscious of existing
jealousy between any of the other co-workers and me—only full
cooperation alw ays.” As a consolation and because there was far too much
for one man to direct, W alt divided the scenes, thirty-two of them including
the title s, among Cottrell, Ben Sharpsteen, Jaxon, a sententious, pipe-
smoking storyman improbably named Perce Pearce, and Lusk e, who now
doubled as animator and sequence director .
But eve n with all the talent no w in place, one giant logistical  obstacle
remained. In making the shorts, the animators had never felt any confusion
between drawin g a scene and drawing the characters within it, because the
scenes g enerally contained so few characters that one man could  do most of
the w ork. In making his assignm ents on Snow White,  W alt married certain
animators to certain characters (for example, Moore to the dwarfs, Babbitt
to th e Q ueen, N atwick to Snow White), but he also delegated a nimators to
draw cer tain scenes. Since characters obviously appeared in more than one
scene, th e two approaches conf licted. Y ou could have dif ferent animators
drawing the same characters in dif ferent scenes and hope for continuity , or