# Página 315  
structures called  “boxcars” were erected at the back of the lot  on Grif fith
Park Boulevard. Still, there was not enough room for the Snow White  army ,
and the studio s pilled down the street and through the neighborhood into
apartment buildings, of fices, and bungalows—“any structure that was near
and coul d house  artists and stor ymen,” as Thomas and Johnston put it. The
story department was relocated  across the parking lot to an ol d two-story
stucco apartmen t house along Grif fith Park Boulevard where the writers,
according to one, “occupied all of the living rooms, bedrooms, dining
rooms, and kitchenettes.” By the time the expansion was finished, the
studio had twelve buildings on five acres with a total replacement value of
$187,000.
Y et for all its apparent clutter and jumble, most visitors found it, as Bill
T ytla enthused,  “a beautiful plant,” with its little grass co urtyard of f
Hyperion, a Ping Pong table on one side and a small garage wit h miniature
cars for Mickey and Minnie on t he other , and its flagstone walk way leading
to the new animation building.  One observer said it looked like a “small
municipal kinde r garten with green grass for the children to keep of f of and,
on t he roof, a gigantic glorious figure of Mickey to show th em the best
way .” Another visitor called i t a “quaint, cozy look appropriate for a
company dealing with fun and fantasy .”
The interiors were no less fanciful, at least after the construction of the
new animation building. “In the first place, everything was pain ted in bright
tints of raspberr y , light blue, and gleaming white, no institution al greens or
bilious browns like the other st udios,” recalled Shamus Culha ne, a young
animator then. Where furniture a t the New Y ork studios looked as if it “had
been sto len from the Salvation Army ,” at Disney “[e]ach animation team
had its own room  with three bea utifully designed desks, upholstered chairs,
cupboards for storing work in progress, and most amazing of all…each
room had a mov iola.” “The desk furniture was something!” W ard Kimball
concurred. “The y decided to use  a Spanish motif because the first building
that was  built on Hyperion had  the Spanish roof tile, so this ti le prevailed
throughout the studio.” In keeping with the style, the animation  desks were
painted white with sienna red trim. “Then they sprayed a kind of dirty