# Página 103  
a co ntract from the Jenkins Music Co. to make what he called a “Song-O-
Reel,” a  live-act ion film with ly rics posted on the title cards, allowing the
audience to sing along with  the musical accompaniment . W ith his
production of Martha: Just a Plain Old-Fashi oned Name,  based on a song
by J oe L. Sande rs, W alt earned just enough money to buy a used motion
picture c amera on trial. (He developed the negatives himself to  cut costs.)
He spent the nex t two weeks, as  he had in the early days of Laugh-O-Gram,
going door to door in a well -to-do residential section of Kansas City
looking for parents who might want films of their children . Again he
developed the negatives and pri nted the film himself, making ten to fifteen
dollars per job, which allowed him to pay of f the camera and save enough
for a train ticket  to Los Angele s. When a movie fan decided he wanted to
make hi s own films, W alt sold h im the camera for twice what he had paid,
thus giving him a little extra for his trip.*
It was a bittersweet departure. Before he left, he visited the people to
whom h e owed money , telling th em he had resolved to go west and of fering
small partial payments. He gave most of his personal belongings to the
Harman brothers with the directive that they be sold and the proceeds
distributed to his creditors, including Jerry Raggos. Of Laugh-O-Gram’ s
remaining assets, Hugh Harman , Rudy Ising, and Carmen Maxwell got a
note for $302 from Schmeltz allowing them to purchase m ost of the
animation equipment, after w hich they set up their own short-lived
animation studio , Arabian Knights Cartoons: A Thousand and O ne Laughs.
The othe r credit ors, according to W alt, wished him well, told him he would
need a grubstake for Californi a, and graciously said he could send the
money when he succeeded.*
He spent his last night in Kansas City having dinner with Edna Francis
and complaining  about his business misfortunes. The next day the mother
of Louise Rast, his brother Herbert’ s wife, prepared three bags of meals for
him to eat on the train trip west and loaned W alt a suit of her son’ s clothes.
He did not have  a suit of his ow n, only a pair of loud threadbare black-and-
white-checked trousers, a check ered jacket, a gabardine raincoat, and an old
brown cardigan . His suitcase was frayed cardboard, half of which was