# Página 650  
comical dandy or a snarling villain and finally left the determination up to
Thomas. When W alt saw Hoo k’ s first scenes, he told Thomas, “I think
you’re b eginning to get him,” an d advised he keep going, which  meant that
W alt was conceding nearly everything to the animators and that the man
who once ordained every frame of his features was now letting the film
develop or ganically .
In the end, when Peter Pan  w as released in  February 1953, W alt was
much more pleased with the film than he had been with Alice,  and so were
critics and audiences. It was greeted with a special segment on the highly
rated T oast of the T own  tel evision program, hosted b y columnist Ed
Sullivan, that recounted W alt’ s life, and with the cover of Newsweek
lauding W alt’ s plans. Bosley Crowther in The New Y ork T imes  called it
“frankly and boldly created in  the ‘Disney Style’”—a turn that since
Cinder ella  h ad regained it s positive connotation. “I might say that Roy i s
wearing his ‘Cinderella smile’ again!” W alt bubbled to one co rrespondent
after the  receipts started coming in. He was so satisfied that he attended the
London premie re that April with Lillian, and later in the year (after
spending most of the summer in Europe again on the pretense of overseeing
the British live-action production Rob Roy ) he attended the Mexican
premiere as well.
But even with the success of Peter Pan  and the media acknowledgment
that W alt Disney’ s worst days seemed to be behind him, W alt was still
trying to find ways to improve the animation without raising the cost, and
he h ad a ssigned Ken Peterson to  come up with suggestions on how to do so.
Peterson’ s advice was predictable and familiar , given the longtime problems
at th e studio: b etter preparation and integration of talent and assigning
animators only after the script has been thoroughly worked out;  but he also
counseled slanting stories toward “broader cartoon action and cartoon
characters” that  would be easie r for less talented animators to  draw , and
bringing in animators from ou tside the studio—something that W alt had
strenuously avoi ded all these ye ars, believing as he did in the su periority of
the Disney method. Peterson a lso told W alt that despite the successes of
Cinder ella  and Peter Pan  and despite the desire to “produce better pictures