# Página 811  
sitting a lone at the T am O’Sha nter restaurant one evening. Davis invited
him to go to a movie with hims elf and his wife. “[A]nd he drew a curtain
just like that an d said, ‘No, I’m  going to stay at the studio.’” “He always
had a certain reserve which he had for individuals,” Davis said.
At t he end of the day he woul d drink. T ommie W ilck, one o f his two
secretaries, would serve him his Scotch Mist with water—mainly water , she
said. “He may h ave consumed a lot of liquid, but I don’ t think he really got
much liquor .” Still, studio vetera ns knew enough to schedule m eetings with
him in the morning or early afte rnoon. “[S]tarting at five o’clock every day ,
a lot of people would say , ‘I’v e got to get to W alt before he uncorks the
bottle because you really can’ t  get the decision you want [afterward],’”
W ard K imball told an interviewer . Jack Kinney said that when  he worked
late at the studio , he would some times see W alt’ s car swerving out of the lot
as he headed home. “That was quite a long way to go,” Kinney would write,
“but he always m ade it. He must have had someone watching over him.” Of
course when he got home, one of the first things he and Lillian did was
have a cocktail, and at one poin t, when a doctor recommended that to lose
weight W alt spend his Palm Springs weekends drinking rather than eating,
he began drinking heavily .
If he  didn’ t have many friends,  he didn’ t have many recreatio ns either .
He enjoyed watching baseball, a nd for years he had had a seaso n’ s box for
the H ollywood Stars minor league team, eventually buying a share in the
club. When a g roup of local n otables or ganized to attempt to bring an
American Leagu e team to Los Angeles, W alt joined the advisor y board and
even at tended spring training games after the city was awarded the
franchise, the Los Angeles Ang els. But if he was a baseball fan, W alt also
seemed to have an ulterior motive: he wanted to establish the team in
Orange County near Disneyland, presumably as a way of helping his park.
His main diversion, now that he no longer had his train, w as lawn
bowling. He had joined the Beverly Hills Lawn Bowling Club  and was a
member of a small bowling club at Smoke T ree as well. He wasn’ t
particularly goo d—W alt had never been good at sports—and when an
eighty-year -old bowler beat him, W alt advised him not to let it “go to your