# Página 801  
suspicious. In fact, that October , Bob Foster and Bob Jackso n, the vice
president of public relations for WED, were in Florida scouting locations
for a press conference at which to announce plans for the park  when they
spotted the headline of the Sentinel-Star  in the lobby of  the Cherry Pla za
Hotel. “ WE SA Y : ‘MYSTER Y’ INDUS TR Y IS DISNEY , ” ran  the  banner .
The sto ry by Bavar explained that Helliwell and Hawkins had been
purchasing land for a new Disney theme park, and it even quoted the
proprietor of a l ocal grocery at the periphery of the Orlando pr operty who
claimed that strange men from California kept coming to get sodas from
him. “The only thing I can tell you is that it is big and fat ,” Helliwell
commented inscrutably .
Florida governo r Haydon Burns confirmed the story that day , and W alt
made hi s own formal announcement at the Cherry Plaza in Orlando on
November 15, 1965, at a news conference—actually two conferences—
attended by close to five hundred reporters. “W e’ve still got a lot of work to
do b efore we ca n even begin to  think about starting construction,” he told
them. “Y ou just can’ t go out and  build a whole new world of entertainment
without a lot of studies and before our people solve a lot of problems.” He
anticipated that the project woul d take eighteen months to plan and another
eighteen months  to implement, a iming for an opening in early 1969, and he
said he would spend $100 millio n just to “get the show on the road.” Then
he p resented a s lide show illustrating the ef fect that Disneyland  had had on
Southern California—nearly $1 billion in revenues. Governor Burns, who
called N ovember 15 the “most significant day in the history of Florida,”
predicted a 50 p ercent rise in to urism and tax revenues. But W alt said that
while th ey obviously expected  to make money , “making money is the
furthest thing from our thoughts in this new enterprise. I mean it. W e want it
to be a labor of love.”
W alt also waxed philosophical, saying, “W e want something educational,
something to keep the family together—that would be a credit to the
community , to the country as a w hole,” but he was vague as to s pecifics and
told an associa te afterward that he had done a “lousy” job in his
presentation. In fact, he had not been specific because the re were no
specifics to mention other than the notion that there would be two