# Página 399  
But as much as it may have seemed like Snow White,  the schedule made
it dif ferent. W alt needed to get the story going; there was no time for the
months and months of refinements, no time to agonize over every frame.
Even before a scene was fully conceptualized, he wanted it sen t to the gag
men, and as soon as an individual sequence seemed ready for animation, he
wanted it sent to the animator s, whether the rest of the film had been
worked out or not. And even as they pored over the script, giv en the new
time pressures the process was far more catch-as-catch-can than on Snow
White : s cenes  were rapidly worked out and then just as rapidly disc arded.
Sketch artist Bill Peet remembered the staf f being summoned to a
Pinocchio  meeting and the animators car rying what he estimated to be at
least seventy storyboards as they huddled around W alt’ s a rmchair in
Projection Room No. 4. W alt’ s mood, which had been lighthearted as the
morning session began, gradually darkened. “There’ s too much  stuf f here,”
he barked, and every so often he would, as Peet recalled it, get up and rip a
whole ro w of sketches of f the board, summarily shortening th e film. The
only cal m in the storm was whe n they came to the character of H onest John
Foulfellow , a conniving fox who waylays Pinocchio, and W alt transformed
himself into the villain to act ou t the scene. By the time the two-day session
ended, W alt had eliminated half  the boards, though as he left, “ he turned to
us with a satisfied smile and sai d, ‘That was a hell of a good session.’” T o
which P eet would write, “It left me wondering what a bad on e would be
like.”
The bad  sessions were to come . From January through June, while the
animators worked simultaneously on sequences, W alt continued to meet
with the  story crew and sketch artists, working through the script more or
less chronologically rather than conquering the key scenes first, as he had
done on Snow White : puppetmaker Geppetto carving Pinocchio and then
realizing his new marionette ca n move (but avoiding the sentim entality of
the scene, because W alt felt there had been too much sentimentality in Snow
White ); Pinocchio getting waylaid by  Honest John; Pinocchio getting sent
to B oobyland (later changed to Pleasure Island), where he is  allowed to
indulge his desires and is turned into a donkey as a result; his escape from
Boobyland; and his attempt to rescue Geppetto, who has been swallowed by
Monstro the Whale. Occasionall y W alt would recite scenes in minute detail,