# Página 613  
policy worked. In 1947 Kamen claimed that the Disney label was selling
roughly $100 million in goods e ach year , including toys, clothes, statuettes,
snacks, and a f ull line of Don ald Duck foods including field peas with
snaps, p eanut b utter , catsup, chili sauce, macaroni, mayonnai se, and egg
noodles. In 1948, when the Dis neys renewed their agreement with Kamen
for a nother seven years, the fiv e-millionth Mickey Mouse wat ch was sold
and more than two thousand Disney-related products were being
manufactured. These sales brou ght in $1.25 million in profits, which the
Disneys split with Kamen on a seventy-thirty basis, the bulk going to the
Disneys, up from the fifty-fifty split the parties had had prior to the war .
That didn’ t include a ten-year license extension on books and magazines
that Roy himself had negotiated with the Whitman Publishing Company
early in 1948 that also required  Whitman to underwrite a bank loan to the
studio for $1.06 million.
The Dis neys not only trusted Kamen but liked him and enjoyed his
company , and by happy coincid ence W alt, Roy , and Kamen all happened to
be in Europe that October— W alt overseeing T r easur e Island,  Roy
conducting busi ness, and Kamen vacationing with his wife. The night
before th e Kamens were to depa rt for the States, they had dinner with W alt
and Roy in Paris. W alt recalled that they were “very happy .” Earlier that
day Kam en had  written the vic e president of his company in  New Y ork
raving over his vacation but expressing his fear of flying back. The Kamens
died the next day , October 27, 1949, in an Air France crash over the Azores.
Thus ended seventeen years of one of W alt Disney’ s happiest and least
tempestuous collaborations. At the time of Kamen’ s death the studio’ s
profits from merchandise had reached a “new high in our hi story ,” Roy
wrote W alt. Kamen was irrepla ceable, the Disneys knew , and they didn’ t
even try  to find a new agent. Instead they decided to run the me rchandising
arm the mselves, appointing O . B. Johnston, who had been a studio
accountant, to head the division . (A few months earlier the Disneys had set
up their own mu sic-publishing division to retain the rights to Disney songs
and to acquire rights to other songs that had a Disney flavor , like the hits
“Mule T rain” and “Shrimp Boats.”) Roy admitted nine months later that in
taking over merchandising from Kamen’ s estate, they had had “some ups