# Página 444  
cultivated his image as an ar tist or at least an artisan rather than an
entrepreneur , W alt was being honest when he said the money was a happy
by-product of the work, not the  motive for it. “I could buy a big place in
Florida and fill it with expensive paintings and other junk,”  he told a
reporter who asked what he wou ld do with his riches. “But what for? That’ s
for people who are bored or want to impress the neighbors.”
He was also bein g honest when he said that he continued to rein vest most
of the profits back in the studi o. Money wasn’ t for personal indulgence.
Money w as for quality , and money was for independence. “I belong to this
studio, t his ‘thing’ that has grow n up here,” he once said. “This is where my
money g oes.” When the company had been formed back in 1923, it was a
partnership between W alt and Roy , and later among W alt, Roy , and Ub
Iwerks when he joined them in California. In 1929, after Iwerks had
departed, W alt Disney Productions was incorporated and issued 10,000
shares o f stock—3,000 each to W alt and Lillian and 4,000 to Roy . When the
company was reor ganized in 1938 and its real estate, merchandise, and
production branches were consolidated, the new entity issued 150,000
shares o f stock with W alt and L illian each receiving 45,000 and Roy and
Edna each receiving 30,000. No one but a Disney held any stake in the
company , and with the exception of his employees to whom he was willing
to grant stock, that was exactly h ow W alt wanted it. As early as 1928, when
he le t pr omoter Harry Reichenb ach exhibit Steamboat W illie  at the Colony
Theater , W alt said he understoo d that one should never sell the rights to a
film. Af ter his experiences with  Charlie Mintz and Pat Powers , he had the
same philosophy  toward the entire company . “W e don’ t have to answer to
anyone,” W alt boasted after Snow White,  con veniently ignoring the fact t hat
he did have to answer to the B ank of America. “W e don’ t ha ve to make
profits f or any stockholders. Ne w Y ork investors can’ t tell us what kind of
picture they want us to make or hold back.”
But that  could be true only so  long as the studio continued to make
profits, and in the wake of Pinocchio  s udden ly a new financial cri sis
emer ged. While the studio had awaited the results of Snow White,  it had
hesitated to put any new feature into full production; that may have been
sensible, but it meant that when Snow White  pro ved to be successful, the