# Página 679  
uniform of every boy , and ma ny girls, in the nation. At the same time
Cr ockett  pus hed the Disneyland  audience well o ver the forty m illion mark
—one-quarter of  the entire coun try . No one at the studio had ant icipated the
response; by the time the first program aired, Norman Foster had already
filmed the third episode in wh ich Crockett dies, thus precluding sequels.
“ABC c ouldn’ t b elieve it. Parker couldn’ t believe it. Neither could W alt nor
I,” B ill W alsh recalled. W alt compared Cr ockett  as a phenomenon to
Mickey Mouse, Thr ee Little Pigs,  and Snow White.  The country went so
Crockett-crazy that even in political circles the historical frontiersman was
now the subject of debates o ver whether he was the emb odiment of
conservative values, as National Review  editor W illiam Buckley asserted, or
had really been a hard-drinking, mendacious rascal, as Harper ’ s  editor John
Fisher asserted.
Parker w ent to W ashington that spring, met with Speaker of the House
Sam Ra yburn and Senators Estes Kefauver and L yndon Johnson, and then
found himself mobbed by autograph seekers at a luncheon wher e the guests
were so  entranced by Parker they ignored the speakers. On  a personal
appearance tour through the Southwest and Southeast that June,
unprecedented c rowds of 18,000 to 20,000 people greeted him at the
airport. “ And wherever he goes, the reaction is tremendous,” publicity chief
Card W alker wrote W alt. “And  it was an extremely emotiona l reaction,”
Parker later said. “I’m not kiddin g you. I had people handing their babies to
me. I signed pictures for infants.  It was very intense.” Parker , who had been
unknown just six months earlier , was awed. “No young man has ever had a
greater share of good fortune!” he wrote W alt appreciatively , and even
better fo rtune since Parker , by co ntractual agreement, received a ten percent
royalty on all the Crockett merchandise, Crockett publications, and Crockett
recordings. Still, a year after the tour W alt was forced to renegotiate
Parker ’ s seven-year personal services contract since, as Bill Anderson wrote
W alt of their new star , “[s]ooner or later he will either get some kind of an
adjustment or he will give us trouble.”
In trying  to analyze why Davy Cr ockett  suddenly seized the national
imagination, on e could certainly point to the physical and narrative
amplitude of the broadcasts and to their quality , which was vastly superior