# Página 648  
But studio business kept interfering, and the plans kept stalling. Though
producer Perce Pearce and writer Lawrence Edward W atkin did most of the
work on  the next British live-action feature, a costume drama  called The
Swor d a nd the Rose,  as they had on the first two, W alt did comment on the
script an d exam ine the storyboards in his of fice to make sure the action
never slackened , and he felt the need once again to spend the summer in
Europe, ostensibly to keep an eye on the production.* But even if he was
essentially relax ing, the pressures were mounting again. Shortly after his
return to the st udio he wrote Pearce that he had been “as busy as the
proverbial ‘ten cats on a tin roof.’” He was helping shepherd Rob Roy , the
Highland Rogue,  another British film, into production for the following
year , and he wa s beginning preparations for the studio’ s first American-
made live-action feature, Jules V erne’ s 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
And even as he was planning these films and even as he was riveted on
the park , he was finishing Peter Pan,  Sir James Barrie’ s account of a boy
who has  never grown up and his  encounters with the wicked Ca ptain Hook,
which h ad been  in production nearly as long as Alice in W onderland.  He
had acq uired t he rights in t he post– Snow White  buying spree, had
completed a Leica reel as early as 1939, had spent $200,000 on  developing
the prop erty by 1943 as oppos ed to only $15,000 on Alice,  and, clearly
feeling af finities for the material, had persistently pushed to get it into
production befo re other films that were in the pipeline. (Aside from The
W ind in the W illows,  which was already in production at the time, it was the
only feature that the Bank of America allowed to proceed during the war .)
As i t slo wly ma de its way throu gh the typical Disney process, W alt talked
to actres s Mary  Martin, who w as appearing in a stage produ ction of the
play , abo ut voicing Peter (Roy thought her voice “too heavy , matured and
sophisticated”), and the actress Jean Arthur had contacted W alt asking to be
considered. W alt had also talked to Cary Grant about voicing Captain Hook,
who said the “i dea intrigued him.” (W alt talked to Grant as well about
starring in a live-action adaptation of Don Quixote  with the Mexican star
Cantinflas as Sancho Panza, another project that was eventually nixed.)