# Página 48  
a few  m onths.) But what was punitive at the Disney house was joyful at the
Pfeif fers’. W alt Pfeif fer ’ s sister Kitty would play the piano whil e the others
sang, or  she would accompany her brother and W alt while they performed
comedy sketches. W alt Disney so enjoyed these sessions that at night he
would sn eak out the window—he was ordered to bed at nine o’ clock so he
could ge t up for the paper route—and head over to the Pfeif fers’ for the fun,
then sneak back. “I went to bed tired,” he said, “but knowing the past hour
and a half had been the nicest part of the day .”
Already W alt had been perform ing at school. “I’d do anything to attract
attention,” he would say . In the fifth grade he fashioned a stove pipe hat out
of cardboard and blackened it w ith shoe polish, dabbed a wart on his cheek,
wrapped himself in a shawl, and  came to class as Abraham Lincoln. He had
even memorized  the Gettysbur g Address to recite. Delighted, W alt’ s teacher
said he was going to be an acto r—“because I squinted my eyes on certain
passages”—and called in the principal, who then paraded W alt into every
classroom. W alt also staged plays with his classmates. “I always got
something where I could bring in fifty kids because the kids would always
laugh at other kids. I’d get laughs that way .”
Soon the “T wo Bad W alters,” a s Pfeif fer and Disney called the mselves,
were performing routines at school. W ith Mr . Pfeif fer instructing and
rehearsing them, they began entering talent contests staged at the local
Agnes T heater a nd, depending on how W alt told the story , either won quite
a few of them or once split a twenty-five-cent fifth prize. (Pfeif fer said that
W alt had  to slip out of the bed room window for these forays too so Elias
would n ot know , “’cause we were kind of afraid of him.”) Some  of the time
they did what they called a “Dutch” act, playing Hans and Mike. W alt
Disney would dress in Elias’ s old deacon’ s coat from his church days, and
W alt Pfeif fer would decorate his  jacket with various badges and  medals that
his father had co llected from conventions. They would sing so ngs and tell
jokes: “My sister is a princes s.” “How do you know your sister is a
princess?” “Bec ause she wears a princess slip!” “My brother wears a union
suit, but that do esn’ t make him belong to a union!” Later th ey became
fascinated with the film comed ian Charlie Chaplin, whose popularity was
soaring at that time. The boys would see each of Chaplin’ s film s, not once