# Página 468  
again ab out the company’ s financial prospects, especially w ith the war
continuing to erode foreign rec eipts. Thanks to the stock issue in April
1940, th e company had managed to retire all of its real proper ty loans for
the new studio and most of its production loans. But by Augu st, with the
losses from Pinocchio,  the studio had been forced to increase its credit line
and seek  more funds, which it op timistically thought it would retire with the
profits from Fantasia.  W ith Fantasia  a  disappointme nt too and the debt
edging t oward $ 3 million, the B ank of America summoned W alt to its San
Francisco headquarters on February 24 to institute some cost-cutting
measures. It was not a pleasant encounter . When a business associate asked
him if he’d won the battle, W a lt snapped, “Y ou never win wit h bankers.”
The nex t month  Joe Rosenber g visited the studio to continue his lecture on
fiscal responsibility , and he and W alt had an ar gument in front of a reporter
in w hich Rosenber g insisted tha t the company must toe the bottom line and
W alt ins isted tha t the business c ommunity had to expand its horizons rather
than concentrate narrowly on immediate returns. As the reporter put it,
“Between the two was a gulf as profound as the human mind.”
“I kn ow the ban k is nervous no w about our indebtedness,” Roy wrote in
a m emo to W alt early in March, “and are [ sic ] go ing ahead t o a higher
figure r eluctantly because they are on the spot and can’ t do much
otherwise,” but Roy realized th at the studio was on “very thin ice.” He
recommended a 20 percent reduction in expenditures, in part by dropping
every pr oject sa ve the shorts and the feature films due to be released over
the next year— Bambi  and Dumbo.  He also  advised that they close their
film-processing lab and W alt’ s cherished art school and that they run down
the l ist of emplo yees and terminate anyone who “can possibly  be released
without af fecting the immediate work in process.” Unawar e of W alt’ s
raises, he demanded that ev ery employee take a salary cut. Roy
acknowledged that these measures would no doubt undermine everything
W alt had  done to build his stud io as a workers’ paradise, but he said the
only alt ernatives were selling their films through a franchise at derisory
terms or being forced into receivership or bankruptcy . The situation was so
bad that  when a film editor requ isitioned a splicer , W alt felt he had to deny
the request.