# Página 148  
Otto Me ssmer s aid, “but it wa sn’ t any good. He was long and skinny .”
Iwerks redesigned him.
As Iwerks told i t, having settled on the mouse, he, W alt, and Roy then hit
upon the Lindber gh scenario by kicking around ideas at the studio. As for
the name, though at one time Iwerks credited Lillian with having come up
with Mi ckey , he later retracted. For his part W alt, in an autob iographical
sketch that he dictated in the mid -1930 s, recalled, “After trying various
names out on my friends, I decided to call him Mickey Mouse,” thus
scanting Lillian’ s contribution. Longtime Disney archivist David Smith said
that Lillian herself waf fled on he r claim to have named the character and on
W alt’ s e ver having called him Mortimer , and a profile of  Disney in
McCall’ s  in 1932, just four years after Mickey’ s creation, stated that the
name M ortimer was junked in favor of Mickey because the  latter was
shorter , not because Lillian ob jected. The nocturnal mice scurrying over
W alt’ s drawing board, the train ing sessions in which W alt d omesticated
them and his sad parting in Kansas City , even the sudden burst of
inspiration on the Santa Fe across the plains headed for California, and
Lillian’ s indignation, were lik ely all embellishments. Rath er , Mickey
Mouse was the product of desperation and calculation—the desperation
born of W alt D isney’ s need to re-create an animation sanctu ary and the
calculation of what the market would accept.
Now the y had to animate the ca rtoon, even though they had no  contract
for it and even  though they were still obligated to produce the three
remaining Oswalds under their contract with Mintz. The strain was doubly
heavy because the perfidious an imators were still working in the studio to
fulfill the Mintz commitment. A mong his top staf f only Iwerks , Les Clark,
the soda jerk fr om the Kingswell neighborhood, and an animator named
Johnny C annon had remained faithful to W alt. W ithin a few weeks W alt had
hired another young artist named W ilfred Jackson—he preferred to be
known as “Jaxon”—who had li ttle experience but had pestered W alt into
giving h im a one-week trial that kept being extended. W alt assigned him to
help the janitor wash cels and then to the ink-and-paint departm ent, where
he was the lone man in a roomful of women.