# Página 247  
May 10  and June 27, when the balloon payment was due—and the
determination to find another benefactor to support W alt’ s new obsession.*
As i t tur ned out , the benefactor found them. Attilio Giannini, the son of
Italian im migrants, was nicknam ed “Doc” because he had earned a medical
degree before entering his o lder brother Amadeo’ s Calif ornia-based
banking firm, the Bank of America. In Los Angeles, Doc Giannini had
become legendary over the years for making loans on character  rather than
collateral, and he was especiall y esteemed in the motion pictu re industry ,
where he was among the first to provide capital for budding studios when
no o ne e lse wou ld. The Disneys had already secured small loans from the
Bank of  Americ a, and while R oy was in New Y ork, Geor ge Morris was
holding discussi ons with the bank, seeking financial advice. (Hearing that
UA was balking at an extensi on, Giannini told Morris that UA needed
Disney more than Disney neede d UA and that Morris should “[t]ell those
sons of b’ s to go to Hell!”) In late May , during one of these sessions at the
Bank of America with an of ficer named Normanly , Dr . Giannini appeared,
shook M orris’ s hand, and abruptly asked him “if United Artists would be
sore if we pull ed away from them,” intimating that the bank might be
willing to pay of f UA ’ s loan. When Morris said that he thought they would
actually be relieved to have the  loan—$1 12,000 of which was outstanding
—repaid, Norm anly and Giannini left for the latter ’ s of fice to consult.
When Normanly returned, he told Morris that the bank now  wanted to
assume t he entire UA debt. Morris wrote Roy excitedly that this “absolutely
severs a ny hold that United Artists may have on us,” but, contr ary to what
he h ad t old Gia nnini, he couldn’ t see why UA would possibly agree. UA,
however , did agree. Not only di d the Bank of America assume the loan, to
be liquid ated wi thin six months, it also agreed to loan the stu dio $12,000
per cartoon on the rest of the contract. A week later Roy m et with Dr .
Giannini to negotiate a general loan credit, irrespective of the  delivery of
films, that would allow the studio for the first time to borrow as it wished.
Now the Disneys finally had th e resources they needed to make color
cartoons or anything else they wanted to make. Under the deal with UA,
which w as still distributing the studio’ s films though no longer financing
them, the Mickey cartoons w ere to remain in black-and-white for the