# Página 583  
IV
Besieged and miserable, W alt Disney knew who was responsible for his
studio’ s declining fortunes, knew that these people were “hoping it was the
end” for  him, as he later put it, and two months after he ret urned from
Alaska, he headed to W ashingto n to help vanquish them. The enemy wasn’ t
just the economics of animations or the bankers with their constraints or
changing aesthetics or a new postwar mood that W alt couldn’ t quite tap the
way he had tapped the mood of the Depression. The enemy was
Communism—Communism that had wracked the studio during the strike,
Communism that had sneaked  into Hollywood like a T rojan horse to
promote values deleterious to d emocracy , Communism that was even now
undermining the  nation as it had undermined the motion pictu re industry .
W alt Disney was going to fight Communism.
This was a ra ther unusual mission for him. Despite their father ’ s
radicalism—Elias and apparently Flora as well had voted for the socialist
presidential candidates, Eugene V . Debs and then Norman Thomas—neither
W alt nor Roy had ever shown much interest in politics. Politics was the
outside world, the world that W alt had built his studio to pro tect himself
from, and anyone hunting for a  consistent political subtext to the cartoons
would have been baf fled by the oscillation between the impertinent Mickey
Mouse cartoons of the early 1930s and the Silly Symphoni es like The
Grasshopper and the Ants, The T ortoise and the Har e,  and The Country
Cousin  t hat promoted traditional va lues like hard work, thrift, and
discipline. The oscillation reflected the Disneys’ lack of political
conviction. When writer Upton Sinclair won the Democratic gubernatorial
primary in California in 1934 on a platform promising to end poverty with
government programs and then was defeated in the general ele ction by an
influx of Hollywood money , Ro y chided his parents for support ing Sinclair
but adm itted, “M any of the thin gs he advocated are going to come around
in s ome form o r other . However , I don’ t believe you can u pset society
overnight,” and he closed his let ter , “I can hear Dad saying, ‘Now , since the
boys hav e joine d the capitalist class and the employers’ class, they sing a
dif ferent tune.’ W ell, of course, it is true.”