# Página 233  
some good, some bad, but the o nly important thing was that the footage got
done.”
The emphasis on analysis nece ssarily led to the development of new
techniques that would facilitate  it and that would soon become standard
operating procedure in animatio n. Early on, animators at the Disney studio
would make what they called “pencil tests” for their own us e—shooting
their rough drawings on inexpensive negative film so that they could see the
outcome before  finalizing the animation. By one account T om Palmer ,
probably early in 1931, had shot a short pencil test and was feeding the film
through the Moviola, a device w ith a small screen that enabled one to view
the foot age, when W alt happened by and asked what Palmer was doing.
Impressed by the value of previewing the rough animation, he instituted it
as a policy in the studio.
In s hort order , W alt installe d a Moviola in a cramped,  stifling,
windowless clos et that was soon dubbed the “sweatbox.” Hunched over the
tiny screen, no m ore than four in ches by four inches, W alt and the animator
would view and analyze the ac tion by the hour , over and over and over
again, tr ying to  determine what would make it right, make it funnier . “I
think it is astoun ding that we w ere the first group of animators, so far as I
can learn, who ever had the chance to study their own work an d correct its
errors be fore it reached the scre en,” W alt would say a few years later . “In
our l ittle studio on Hyperion Street [ sic ], ev ery foot of rough animation  was
projected on the screen for analysis, and every foot was drawn a nd redrawn
until we  could say , ‘This is the  best that we can do.’” Eventually W ilfred
Jackson began stringing the pen cil tests together , along with st ill drawings
for the scenes not yet animated, into longer sequences that he called “Leica
reels,” after the Leica camera that was used to shoot them, so that the
animators could see scenes in relation to one another . W alt encouraged them
to add sound as well. In ef fect, then, W alt and the four or five animators
who could squeeze into the “sweatbox” with him could previe w the entire
cartoon before the drawings wer e cleaned up and inked and painted on cels.
This strengthening of his control seemed to ener gize W alt; he loved to pore
over the Leica reels. But even then the process wasn’ t foolproof. After a