# Página 637  
But despite the hopefulness, a general sense of malaise wafted through
the nation. In pa rt it was a result of the Cold W ar between the c apitalist and
Communist bloc s, colder still after the Soviet Union detonated an atomic
bomb in August 1949. Americans understandably felt they were threatened
from without by Russia. They  would also come to feel that they were
threatened from within by a cadre of Communists and Communist
sympathizers wh o had wedged their way into the government—the alleged
fifth columnists that Senator Jos eph McCarthy would ride to he adlines. But
it wasn’ t just the Communist threat to government that led to anxiety . No
less an authorit y than President T ruman’ s attorney general, J. Howard
McGrath, said Communists were everywhere—“in factories, of fices,
butcher stores, on street corners and in private business. And each carries in
himself the death of society .”
Dire as that so unded, probably more important was the feeling of
dislocation that accompanied rapid change during the period. Along with
the rise of wage s and the growth of consumption, America was under going
suburbanization, a revolution in mass communication with the introduction
of telev ision i n the early 1 950s, increased physical mo bility with
automobiles, a national highway construction program and a boom in
commercial airlines, new technologies, bureaucratization, an d even the
development of a new personali ty type to negotiate the new society—a type
that sociologist David Riesman would describe as “other -directed,” or
driven le ss by an internal compa ss than by a need to please othe rs, and what
W illiam Whyte would call the “ or ganization man,” who was concerned as
much with managing the burea ucracy as with acquiring skills. What all
these p henomena—from McCarthyism to suburbanizatio n to the
or ganization man—had in common, historian W illiam Chafe would write,
was that all wer e related “to the  existentialist dilemma of finding a way to
create meaning in the face of forces over which one had no control.”
W alt Disney , like General Dwight Eisenhower , who would be elected
president in 1952 and hid an iron will behind a facade o f af fability ,
promised control. When Americ a was enjoying its burst of self-confidence
immediately afte r the war , critic s generally disdained Disney’ s cartoons, in
part bec ause the  films were shabbily made and the sense of control in them