# Página 14  
a p eripatetic childhood of mater ial and emotional deprivation, at least as he
remembered it, he began drawing and retreating into his own imaginative
worlds. That set a pattern. His life would become an ongoing ef fort to
devise what psychologists call a “parcosm,” an invented unive rse, that he
could control as he could not control reality . From Mickey Mo use through
Snow W hite and the Seven Dwa rfs  through Disneyland through EPCOT , he
kept attempting to remake the world in the image of his own imagination, to
certify h is place as a force in th at world and keep reality from encroaching
upon it, to recap ture a sense of childhood power that he either ha d never felt
or had lost long ago.
It was this attempt, in fact, as much as the fairy tales he used for
inspiration, that for ged the bond  between Disney and childhood, a bond he
frequently disav owed by insisting that his films were not made f or children.
Whether in his movies or in his theme parks, Disney always promised a
fantasy in which one could exer cise the privileges of childhood—privileges
he never  abandoned in his own life. This will to power also exp lained why
animation was his preferred medium. In animation one took the inanimate
and brou ght it to life, or the illus ion of life. In animation one could exercise
the power of a god.
No doubt because he worked in what was regarded as a juvenile idiom,
and because his films seemed naïve, unselfconscious, and unpretentious, the
young W alt Disney was regarde d in most circles as a kind of folk artist. In
the 1930s, when he became a  celebrity virtually overnight, intellectuals
frequently compared him to another popular artist, Charlie Chaplin, and
several, includin g Thornton W ilder , went so far as to say that Chaplin and
Disney were the only true geniuses that the movies had produced. Still,
there was always something in Disney that pegged him not just as a populist
but as peculiarly American, an d though an early biography of him was
subtitled An American Original,  he was less original in many respects than
quintessential. H e had been born in the Midwest in the very heart of the
country at the turn of the century and at the fulcrum of an expiring
agricultural nation that looked backward to an idyllic past and  an aspiring
industrialized on e that looked fo rward to a technological future, and he had
a foot in each. H is childhood had even been divided between the country