# Página 131  
from Gay . She later sniped, “Mar gie was cute in her little Clara Bow
haircut, but all she really had to do was clap her hands, put her hands on her
hips and  jump up and down,” which, whether Davis knew it or not, was an
implicit acknow ledgment that Alice had become incidental to her own
films.
In the midst of the Sturm und Drang with Mintz and the Davi ses, W alt
had one respite: the Disneys moved the studio that February from the two
rooms on Kingswell to their new  quarters on Hyperion A venue. It was not a
particularly prepossessing place, situated among wild oats and abutting a
pipe or gan factory and a gas stat ion. One employee described it as about the
size of a grocery store—just a single sixteen-hundred-square-foot stucco
bungalow into which the Disneys had poured about $3,000 for renovations.
W alt later described it as a “litt le green and white structure with a red tile
roof, and a nice little plot of grass in front of us.” Still, it represented not
only th e company’ s growth and aspirations but also W alt’ s self-
aggrandizement and even pomp osity in the face of his modest s uccess. This
was his  studio now . “O ne evening when W alt and I were discussing  our
move,” Roy once told an associ ate, “W alt said to me, ‘Roy , when we move
to Hype rion, I’m  going to have  a lar ge neon sign erected, reading “W alt
Disney S tudios.”…He looked at  me as if expecting an ar gument. I said, ‘If
that’ s th e way you want it.’ And W alt said, ‘That’ s the way I want it and
that’ s the way it will be!’ And that’ s the way it was.” The Disney Bros.
studio had become the W alt Disney studio.
This was considerable bravado for someone who had reached an impasse
with his distributor and was faci ng the end of his contract. But W alt wasn’ t
going to succumb to Mintz without a fight. He was scheming. Just before
moving to Hyperion, in an apparent attempt to break the stalemate, he had
written Film Booking Of fice chief Joseph Schnitzer directly , complaining
about Mintz. Schnitzer had notified Mintz, who fired of f a letter to W alt
saying he was “extremely disappointed” in him. When Schnitzer of fered to
mediate, Mintz refused, saying t hat he owned the rights to Alice and did not
need W a lt. Now  W alt blinked, w iring Mintz on February 8 with  yet another
set of terms: a $500 payment after the first $4,000 gross, then $500 to Mintz
and then a fifty-fifty split. W alt also asked to retain the rights to the films.