# Página 449  
the “Bald Mountain” sequence in Fantasia,  animated the baby Dumbo, but
even he admitted that “[i]t was in the nature of the film to go very fast and
get it out in a h urry .” T o expedite the animation, W alt used photostats of
story sk etches i nstead of the full layouts as on the other features, and he
recruited some of his better animators to oversee younger , less experienced
ones wh o had been put on the picture. One animator said he didn’ t even
draw key poses but animated “straight-ahead,” just as in the old days.
But as rapidly as it sped forwar d, Dumbo  s till  wo uldn’ t b e ready in time
to gener ate the income the studio needed then. W alt had to f ind another
contingency , som ething he could get ready even faster . Earlier that year he
had inv ited the humorist Robert Benchley to the studio to discuss
Benchley’ s poss ible narration of a cartoon titled How to Ride a Horse,
starring a tall, flop-eared, dim-witted dog named Goofy who had previously
been featured in Mickey Mouse  shorts. After that meeting W alt  hatched the
idea of having Benchley appear in a combination live-action/animated
featurette in which he tours the  new studio, and by early May , W alt was
fielding ideas on exactly what t he content would be—“to figure something
out,” as he put it. T o his staf f he was frank about the situation , espousing
something he would have de rided just a few months before but his
endorsement of which now conv eyed the gravity of their curren t condition:
he would not just be rushing production, as he was doing with Dumbo;  he
would be making a film solely for profit as a way , he felt, of protecting the
quality o f the better features. “The answer [to the financial crisis] I thought
was to get out a couple of things that we call ‘quickies’ and on l ow budgets,
but whic h would  be damn good entertainment.” The Benchley f ilm was one
of those quickies.
Though W alt and the story crew batted around various ideas, he finally
settled o n what he called the si mplest and most direct plot: B enchley has
come to  the studio to pitch a cartoon called The Reluctant Dragon,  and in
the process of trying to find W alt, he finds himself bouncing from one
department to another , just missing the boss each time but essentially letting
the a udience see the entire studio and observe the process of an imation. At
the end, when he finally encounters W alt, he discovers that The Reluctant
Dragon  has already been made by the studio.