# Página 481  
union leader observed of the in flux of younger employees into the studio
that, unlike the longtime animators, they didn’ t have “stars in  their eyes
about W alt…They had knocked  about during the Depression, and they had
some kind of so cial consciousness,” while the older animators  were likely
to say , “If it weren’ t for W alt, I wouldn’ t be where I am.”
Now the discontents began to boil. Five days after W alt’ s speech many of
the disillusioned  employees gathered at a meeting of the SCG at the
Hollywood Hotel where Art Babbitt, the former president of the federation,
told his colleag ues over a loud speaker that the federation was toothless.
Shortly thereafter , Babbitt began to get fewer assignments, and when he
protested to Hal Adelquist, the h ead of studio personnel, he was  told it was
a res ult of his union activities. Still, three weeks later , seemingly  despairing
of winning the battle, Gunther Lessing agreed to let the SCG cross-check
the Disn ey payroll against the union’ s applications for membership to
support the union’ s claim that it represented a majority of the studio’ s
employees. Then, just as suddenly , Lessing insisted that the National Labor
Relations Board  conduct the cross-check, knowing full well that the NLRB
was pros cribed f rom doing so w hile it judged the legality of the federation.
Four day s later the federation called a meeting at the studio and  announced
that Ant hony O’Rourke, a former NLRB of ficial and an attorne y the studio
had hired to advise it on union matters, had been named the “impartial
chairman” of the studio’ s proposed labor board.
W alt, se eming t o think that he  could douse the union by asserting his
control, instead kept fanning the flames. On March 22, with union activity
intensifying, he announced a ne w austerity plan, cutting salaries 5 percent
for those earning between $50  and $100 a week, 10 percent for those
earning between  $100 and $200,  and 15 percent for those earning over $200
and instituting a five-day , forty-hour workweek, thus reducing overtime.
The studio was also eliminating food service to the rooms and shutting the
cof fee s hop exc ept during the noon hour . “Let us now be assured that we
can once more get to work wit h a mental attitude tuned to producing the
amount of work which we feel certain you are all thoroughly capable of
doing,” W alt declared with the s ame peremptory attitude that had already so
riled the employees.