# Página 192  
him, and an Austrian critic complained that he was now more popular than
Mozart.
Perhaps most telling of all about Mickey’ s popularity was how many of
W alt’ s competitors were already  imitating the mouse just as they had once
imitated Felix. The Disneys brou ght suit against both Pathé and V an Beuren
for M ickey look-alikes and wa rned Mintz about a character who looked
suspiciously like  Mickey . At the  same time Harman and Ising created a new
character named  Bosko who resembled Mickey . Dick Huemer told W alt
that the animato rs at Paramount and those drawing Krazy Kat for Mintz got
each Disney cartoon and ran th em again and again so they could copy the
work, at  which W alt crowed, “Our pictures are the center of att ention back
here—all the New Y ork artists are trying to compete with them.”
By the early 19 30s a raft of analysis dissected what exactly  made a
round, c hirpy little mouse so enormously appealing. When  W alt was
pressed to explain, his early assessments were surprisingly routine and
superficial. He cited the constan t motion in Mickey cartoons, th e sharpness
and brevity of the gags, and the exaggeration of emotions that were
grounded in human experience and familiar to everyone. He told another
interviewer that Mickey’ s size elicited sympathy and that when he
triumphed, the small over the big, the audience rejoiced wi th him. On
another occasion, celebrating Mickey’ s twenty-fifth anniversary , he
attributed his creation’ s appeal  to simplicity: “Mickey is so simple and
uncomplicated, so easy to understand, that you can’ t help liking him.” And
on still another occasion, when Aldous Huxley asked W alt wh at theory he
employed behind Mickey , W alt threw up his hands and said, “W e just make
a Mickey , and then the profs come along and tell us what we got.”
The profs couldn’ t agree either , though, on the source of Mickey’ s
appeal. Some thought he drew his appeal from the cultural currents of the
1930s. Animation historian John Culhane would say that in his very circular
design, signaling a kind of impregnability , Mickey was the “perfect
expression of what he symbolizes—survival,” which, at the time he rose to
prominence in the early days of the Great Depression, was a powerful
attraction to a n ation that was itself trying and hoping to sur vive. More