# Página 332  
had in mind,” though W alt himself had contributed to this notion. “He is
slow at figuring things out, the  way [Stan] Laurel does,” W al t said at an
extended discussion of Dopey that December . “Dopey can’ t even get the
spoon right. He has a hold of it in such a manner that when he dips the
spoon down in the soup, he brought it up in such a way that it would be
upside d own w ith no soup in it.” And he invoked Harry Langdon once
again, re calling a scene where t he comedian is invited to tag along with a
group of coworkers at a factory , and he is so pleased to be with them that he
keeps ru nning ahead of them and looking back, beaming. But if W alt
described Dopey as eager and addled, like W alt’ s old uncle Ed, he also
insisted that he be cute. “I think the thing that expresses Dopey best is that
he h asn’ t grown up—sort of ch ildish,” he told one meeting, w hich didn’ t
seem to help the animators much. In a sign of their floundering, Dave Hand,
again grasping at straws, sugge sted they invite Eddie Collins back to the
studio to act out Dopey’ s part in the hope that he might stimulate them.
As W alt described it, the breakt hrough came when they decided to think
of D opey not as  an elf or as an innocent or as a child but as a “ human with
dog man nerisms and intellect,” thus reverting to an idea in a note he had
sent his staf f a y ear earlier describing Dopey as “in a way like Pluto.” “Y ou
know the way a dog will be so intent on snif fing a trail that he doesn’ t see
the rabbit right i n front of him,” W alt said, “—and when the rab bit scurries
away the dog d oes a delayed ta ke? That’ s the way Dopey was. W e made
him able to mo ve one ear inde pendently of the other , the way a dog can
shake of f a fly . And when Dopey had a dream, he pawed with his hand the
way a dog does while sleeping.” W ith that decision, the dwarfs were finally
solved, albeit provisionally , since everything on Snow White  was
provisional, and  on January 8, 1937, W alt was able to issue a memo that
had been a long time coming: “Details that Are to Be on Dwar fs, OK’d by
W alt.” Now the real work of bringing the vision to the screen could begin.
V
All the months during which W alt and the staf f had been fine -tuning the
script and ruminating about the  dwarfs, they had had other , equally ur gent