# Página 282  
trance, and suddenly transform himself uninhibitedly into Mickey or
Donald or an owl or an old hunt ing dog. “Y’know this old guy would come
snufin’ a long lik e a vacuum clea ner , his muzzle spread all over the ground,”
W alt would say as he recalled a dog from his childhood in Marceline and
turned h imself into that dog. “A nd as W alt acted it out, it bec ame funnier
and fun nier ,” Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston wrote. Then, as his
audience began to respond, W alt would dive deeper into the character ,
finding more comic possibilities. “He would imitate the expressions of the
dog, and look fr om one side to the other , and raise first one [ey e]brow and
then the  other as he tried to figure things out.” And by doing that he
demonstrated to the storymen and the animators in the room, in Thomas and
Johnston’ s words, “what was funny about the character itself,” inspiring the
animators to draw what W alt had performed for them. This became his
chief means of c ommunicating his ideas and the foundation for  the studio’ s
cartoons. “Y ou’d  have the feeling of the whole thing,” Dick Huemer noted.
“Y ou’d know exactly what he wanted.”
After the agreement on W alt’ s  contributions as a storyteller , opinions
diver ged over how one would prioritize his other most important talents.
W ard K imball thought W alt was a “supersalesman” who believed so
devoutly in his s tudio and its ca rtoons that he could convince a nyone, even
the s todgiest banker , of their value. Eric Larson credited him with having a
unique sensitivit y to knowing what the public wanted. Art Babbitt cited his
unparalleled jud gment: “He oftentimes didn’ t know what he was going
after , bu t he could spot somethi ng that was wrong in a piece of  work.” His
instincts were so keen that at one point W alt set up a table in the middle of
the animators’ room, had the animators bring him their drawin gs and then
summarily told them what wor ked and what didn’ t. Sharpsteen believed
that W al t’ s “forte was the supervision of his business—every bi t of it—and
in the feeling that everything that was done, every drawing that was made,
was the result of his guidance.” Others, not always with appreciation,
adduced W alt’ s utter devotion  to the studio with setting a tone of
obsessiveness th at af fected everyone who worked there. “A lot of the guys I
worked with at Disney couldn’ t stand him because of that,” said writer
Maurice Rapf. “He stuck his nose into everything.”