# Página 58  
would r emember sitting with Flora and discussing W alt’ s potential as an
artist.
Even so, in July he left O-Zell for a job in the post of fice as a substitute
mail car rier . (He  loved to tell how he was initially denied the a ppointment
because he looked too young for the responsibility , then went home,
changed his clothes, drew a mustache on himself, exchanged h is cap for a
hat, and  returned  to the same man and got the job.) He would arrive at the
downtown post of fice at seven in the morning, sort the mail an d deliver it,
and retu rn by three or four o’clock in the afternoon. Though he could have
gone ho me then , frequently he w ould make the special delivery run or take
a horse and bug gy or the white  Ford truck and pick up the mail from the
boxes. O n Sundays he would grab a lar ge mailbag and take the  subway to
the Grand A venue Pier to collect postcards. He made forty cents an hour ,
which h e descri bed as a “gold rush to me.” On days when he finished his
route and there was no additional work, he would take the elevated train to
the T hirty-fifth Street terminus,  pull on a uniform, and serve as gateman,
loading the cars and closing the doors—typically working twelv e to thirteen
hours in all. “It was thrilling to ride on that thing,” he later said.
But, amid the th rills, one brush that summer almost cost him his life. On
September 3 W alt had just finished his mail run and was walk ing through
the post of fice in the Chicago Federal Building when he heard what he
described as a “ WHOOOM!!!!”—a deafening blast that shook the ground.
In the lobby , du st billowed everywhere. Police immediately locked down
the b uilding. It t urned out that s omeone had planted a bomb, in juring thirty
and killi ng four ,  including a ma n who had worked two desks from W alt’ s.
Authorities deba ted whether the perpetrators were radicals hoping to free
the head of the  left-wing Industrial W orkers of the W orld l abor union,
W illiam Haywood, who was in custody in the eighth-floor jailhouse, or
anarchists or German spies trying to cast suspicion on the IWW .*
The Ger mans w ere on every Am erican’ s mind that summer of 1918, with
the c ountry at w ar with Germany and American troops in Europe. W alt had
been thinking about Germany t oo. As the summer drew to an end, he had
no p lans to retur n to school, late r writing Principal Cottingham  that he had