# Página 541  
Now , wi th the studio foundering aimlessly , he conceded to Ro y . He chose
stability over authority , the money over the risk.
Y et the studio gained another source of income that year in ad dition to
the refin ancing, and it reminded W alt of what the studio had bee n before the
war . Wh ile coming back on the train from one of his W ashingto n trips early
in 1942,  he had met Nate Blum ber g, the head of Universal Pi ctures, who
told W alt how Universal had mined its old film library for pictures they
could re issue an d advised that the Disney studio do the same. W alt had
prodded Roy on the matter , asking him to consider re-releasing Snow White
and possibly some of the other features in time for Christmas in 1943. Roy
finally agreed on Snow White,  tho ugh the com pany missed the holiday
season a nd opened it instead in February 1944. It was the first ti me in years
that RKO seemed ener gized by the prospect of selling a Disney film, even if
it was an old o ne, and V ern Caldwell wrote W alt that they e xpected an
“exceptional gro ss.” In fact, its  success had become so impo rtant to the
studio that Roy , citing “your pro duction problems,” ur ged W alt to attend the
Cincinnati prem iere, which he did. When it opened in New Y ork early in
April, W alt bragged that in all of its return engagements to that point Snow
White  had equaled the gross of the average A feature and exceeded the
grosses of the m ost recent Disney films.* E ven Roy crowed to W alt tha t
“ SNOW WHITE  really seems hot.”
Meanwhile, as American troops invaded the Normandy beaches in
France that June—at Allied hea dquarters the code name for th e operation
was “Mickey Mouse”—and the war began its long slog to a conclusion,
W alt wa s supervising the training films and South American pic tures for the
coordinator . Wh en the European phase of the war ended in Ma y 1945 and
the Japa nese ph ase four months later , the studio closed for three days in
celebration. Though he had shown surprisingly little interest in the war
itself ou tside of V ictory ,  W alt Disney ha d made significant contributions to
the Ame rican su ccess. Among the smaller contributions, he had provided
twelve-hundred designs for military insignia, and the T reasury Department
credited him with helping to sell more than $50 million worth of savings
bonds. Among the lar ger one s were the government movies—by one
estimate (inexact because the records were inexact), he had made between