# Página 794  
interests me, some little idea that looks like fun”—which was exactly what
he did.  
When th e second  season of the world’ s fair started the following  April, after
the release of Mary Poppins,  W alt, much more relaxed, was ferrying
employees from  California to t he fair as a reward. When he a rrived with
Marc Davis near the fair ’ s closing to see how his attractions had held up, he
became something of an attraction himself. Everywhere he went he was
mobbed by well-wishers—“He touched  me!” one woman squealed—except
at the Ford pavil ion, where he d ecided to wait in line with the other visitors,
all o f wh om resp ected his privacy and none of whom approached him. But,
said Davis, “[w]hen we got in th e car [that took guests through the exhibit]
the who le crowd applauded. And they had left him alone all this time. It
was an amazing experience. And he was very touched.”
By the time the fair closed in Oc tober 1965, after two seasons, 51 million
visitors had attended and nearly  47 million of them, or 91 percent, had seen
one of Disney’ s four exhibits, making W alt Disney clearly one of the main
successes there. But not everyone was enamored of W alt’ s co ntributions.
W riting in Life  shortly after the opening, the architect and architectural
educator V incent Scully wailed , “If This Is Architecture, God Help Us.”
Fastening on the idea that Disney was now creating facsimiles of
experiences that paled in comparison to the real thing and yet substituted
for the real thin g, Scully accused him of being a man who “so  vulgarizes
everything he touches that facts lose all force, living things their stature,
and the ‘history of the world’ its meaning. Disney caters to the kind of
phony re ality—most horribly exemplified by the moving and talking figure
of Linco ln elsewhere in the Fair —that we all too readily accept  in place of
the true . Mr . Disney , I’m afrai d, has our number .” It was a char ge that
would in creasingly be leveled at W alt Disney: he had not only taken the
edge and danger out of his art; h e had found a way to take them out of life
generally .