# Página 768  
from a life-mas k of Lincoln.) H e may have been more honest, however ,
when he said, “W e’re making the legend of Pygmalion come true.”
How much of t he project was about Abraham Lincoln and h ow much
about W alt Disney was dif ficult  to say . Harriet Burns, who helped fabricate
the robo t, said that W alt visited WED “and cocked his eyebrow , and with
his mou th he clenched and grit ted his teeth. He pointed to his cheeks and
said, ‘W e have to do this—the muscles in the body . There’ s no reason we
can’ t do  this.’” For the mechani cs of the robot, W alt had WED adapt a tape
system u sed on the navy’ s Polaris nuclear submarine, the patent for which
he paid $17,000. Each tape had fourteen tracks capable of delivering sixteen
electromagnetic impulses each. “All we have to do is set the time and we
can put on the shows without even a cof fee break,” W alt told a New Y ork
T imes  re porter in desc ribing the forthcoming T iki Room, which was itself a
test run for Lincoln. The movements were programmed onto the tape from a
harness that one of the Imagin eers wore, and the machinery was placed
inside the figure, though when L incoln began to drip oil during  a test, W alt
ordered Bob Gurr to fabricate th e parts of lighter material so that, in Gurr ’ s
words, the robot would “weigh half as much and do twice as much.”
Already by the summer of 1961, the Imagineers had made a Lincoln
figure that could rise from its ch air . Early the next year , to squelch a dispute
between the machinists (who made the mechanical components) and the
sound engineers  (who made the electrical and control elements), W alt had
his L incoln moved to a small, se cret room in the Animation Bui lding where
the W ED staf f continued to work on it. “W alt was always runnin g people in
and out [of the room],” remembered machinist Neil Gallagher . “W e were
always r unning it for a bunch of people. Sometimes we couldn’ t  even run it.
He would just ta lk them through it.” Among those whom W alt ran into the
room was Robert Moses. Moses  had come to the studio that April to see the
Ford and GE drawings, to re view WED’ s other possibilit ies, and to
encourage W alt’ s continued part icipation in the fair . W alt asked Moses if he
would like to m eet Abraham Lincoln and took him to the room, where he
made th e introduction. Lincoln extended his hand, and Moses was instantly
captivated. He insisted that he h ad to have Lincoln at the fair . When W alt