# Página 657  
But if there was no antecedent, in its planning the park had been the
beneficiary of a host of forces and influences—the Edenic European
gardens, like T ivoli, that W alt had visited; the expositions and fairs, like the
Century of Progress in Chicag o in 1933, the New Y ork W orld’ s Fair in
1939, and even the Chicago Railroad Fair; historical re-cre ations, like
Knott’ s Berry Farm, Greenfield V illage, and Colonial W illiams bur g, all of
which W alt had seen and enjoyed; and, what may have been the most
important influence of all, California architecture itself. As Edmund W ilson
had onc e describ ed Los Angeles flamboyance: “Here you see m ixturesque
beauty ,” a “Pekinese pagoda ma de of fresh and cracky peanut brittle then a
snow white marshmallow iglo o—or a toothsome pink nougat in the
Florentine manner , rich and delicious with embedded nuts.” Los Angeles
was a fantastic,  eclectic, architecturally unruly city , af fected as it was by
Hollywood, whi ch was also fan tastic, eclectic, and unruly , as w ell as by a
general sense of possibility . All  of Los Angeles was a movie set or , as one
commentator in the 1920s called  it, the “child of Hollywood out of Kansas”
and the “Middle W esterner ’ s Nirvana,” which almost perfectly described
the city’ s relationship to W alt Disney . His Disneyland would in  many ways
be th e apotheosis of Los Angele s architecture, an apotheosis of Hollywood,
and in talking about the park he  would even describe its layout as if it were
a movie: “This is scene one, this is scene two, and this is scene three.”
Having borrowed the idiom of motion pictures for his park, W alt Disney
had also  borrowed the movies’ intent. Hollywood—the creatio n lar gely of
Eastern Europea n Jews who expunged their pasts by devising a better world
of their imaginations—refined and idealized reality . So would Disneyland,
the creation of a wounded man  who expunged what he saw as the darker
passages of his past by devising a better world of his imaginat ion, though
one that  was obviously colored  by the images of Hollywood.  One of the
sources of the p ower of Hollywood was that it created archetypes that, it
was often said, managed to plu mb some deep Jungian ocean of collective
consciousness. D isneyland, essentially a giant movie set, would deploy the
same ar chetypes and would plumb the same depths. As one Disney
historian put it, “One could take every feature of the parks [Dis neyland and
later W a lt Disne y W orld] and ex plain its appeal in terms of some instinctive
or emotional response common to almost all of us.”