# Página 425  
but I think we are managing him alright.” In fact, by at least one account,
Stokowski was happier with the recordings than were Bill Garity , the
studio’ s engineer , and Leigh Harline, its musical director . In any case, at the
end of April W alt was heading back to the studio with the recordings
finished. Now all they had to do was animate the film.  
But he also had Pinocchio  to  contend with , and he needed  to get it finished
before to o much time had elapsed and the studio lost its momen tum. In just
over six months he had managed to work out The Concert Featur e.
Pinocchio  had always been a much more stubborn proposition, and even
before th e key animation had started, the film was already well o ver budget.
He spen t much of the summe r and early fall sweatboxing scenes and
presented a rough assemblage t o his employees on the studio  soundstage
that September .  The response was less than enthusiastic, th ough W alt
dismissed most of the criticism.  “There’ s certain guys that write you these
long lett ers…and they’ll criticize everything up and down,” W alt sniped,
even tho ugh his was the most critical voice at the studio, “and I have known
certain ones that go for art, and they don’ t even know what the hell art is
themselves.” In any case, he left a few days later with Lillian for a three-
week vacation to Hawaii. He w ould be less dismissive when he returned
from his holiday and showed t he rough to Joe Rosenber g of the Bank of
America and Ned Depinet and Geor ge Schaefer of RKO on October 26.
“These people had come to examine the picture under special and very
unusual circums tances,” publici st W illiam Levy wrote W alt late r that week,
clearly trying to rally him from what had apparently been a less-than-
satisfying preview , and closed, “I consider it can and should outgross ‘Snow
White’ in every normal market by a considerable mar gin.”
But W al t himself wasn’ t so sure . He bragged to the Bambi  crew  th at the
enforced extra time on Pinocchio,  w hen they had had to reconceptualize the
film, had actually paid dividend s because the animators, with the benefit of
live acti on and dialogue tracks, now had a firmer grasp on the characters—
firmer even than they had had on the characters in Snow White.  Rather than