# Página 345  
reality . “[Y]ou look at some of that live action,” Eric Larson admitted years
later , “and it was actually more animated than we finally got o n the screen
in some , some instances.” Still, W alt was adamant that the rotoscoping be
concealed from the public. In pr eparing the publicity campaign, he dictated
that no live action be shown. “I want this definitely left out as  people will
get the wrong impression of it,” he wrote publicity chief Roy Scott. “The
only thing we might say is that we use live models for the purposes of
studying action, etc., but we do not photograph live action and b low up our
drawings from same”—although, in fact, that was exactly what they did.  
There was so lit tle time and now more measures were needed to meet the
deadline and tighten the film itself. Scenes had to be “snapped up,” W alt
said, “retaining all the good business, but snapping it up and taking out the
excess dialogue .” And the sna pping-up even extended to cutting scenes
altogether . As early as November 1936, storyman Dick Creedon had
suggested the possibility of lop ping two scenes—one in which the dwarfs
meet to  discuss whether they should let Snow White stay or , fearing
repercussions from the Queen, make her leave, and another in  which the
dwarfs, having resolved to let her stay , decide to build her a bed so that she
will not want to leave. “I don’ t think it has any purpose in the story now and
will divert us at a point where we should start building our suspense
tempo,” Creedon  asserted. Unconvinced, W alt proceeded to have the scenes
animated anywa y , as well as another in which the dwarfs are eating soup
under the reproachful eye of Snow White, who is trying to teach them
manners, though he warned of the bed-building: “T ake out all the
superfluous stuf f.” The scenes were still in the picture as late a s June 1937
—they hadn’ t even been finalized until April—but W alt, like Creedon,
finally decided they had to go because they disrupted the flow of the
narrative. W ard Kimball, who had animated the bulk of the soup-eating
sequence, was crushed. He had spent nearly a year and a half on the section.
As W alt cut and  rushed and pres sed, the animators began to buc kle under
the pressure. As they fell behind schedule, one rumor had it that the Bank of