# Página 548  
ideas and the times when he “really meant what he was saying,” though
W alt expected one to know the dif ference and act upon it. One executive
said that he cou ld “suddenly shift course without notifying the appropriate
able-bodied sea men, then lash them to the mast when they pursued the
original plan as charted.” Marc Davis believed that however much W alt
talked a bout the  studio as a family , he “did not like people being too close
together ,” and he was constantly breaking up teams of animators or
storymen in the belief, Davis surmised, that “if two guys liked one another
too much they j ust sat there and got fat,” though it also had the ef fect of
disrupting continuity . Dick Huemer accused W alt of being an awful judge
of p eople—a char ge that W alt h ad once leveled against himself—and said
he had a “habit of taking any given individual and putting him into an
arbitrary job, giving him a title  and expecting him to do the job,” which
frequently he could not do.
But the biggest complaint again st W alt was that he had an av ersion to
or ganization—or ganization that  was absolutely necessary now that the
studio had grown and bureaucra tic discipline had to be imposed. No matter
how many times he asked one of his subordinates to devise an
or ganizational chart, no matter how many times he attempted to delegate
authority—usually preceded by his announcing, “W e are all disor ganized
here. W e don’ t know what we ’re doing”—he wound up either absenting
himself entirely  and letting issu es be resolved by default only to return at
the end of the process and overrule what others had decided, or more likely ,
micromanaging every detail to the point where, according to one soundman,
W alt even knew the entire inventory of studio equipment, including the
number of lightbulbs in stock. As executive Harry T ytle put it, “The most
prevalent comp laint I recorded about W alt by his producers, writers,
directors, and management is that he would not delegate creative authority .”
In W alt’ s own w ords, “A studio cannot be run by a committee . Somebody
has to make the final decision,” though in another sign of his irr esolution he
also wrote an employee after describing a new studio rou tine, “I am
convinced that there is a greater feeling of security in such an or ganization
rather than allow one person to make all the decisions.”