# Página 253  
in back rent due him. “Of cou rse that ain’ t much to any one having a
‘Mickey Mouse’ Studio or something similar ,” he wrote his son Raymond
snidely . “T o us it means consid erable.” Their hope, they said, rested with
the election of the new president.
When Franklin Roosevelt was in augurated in March 1933 and d eclared a
bank holiday that same week to help stem a possible run o n financial
institutions, Roy was shaken, frantic over how the studio would pay its staf f
with its assets frozen. He had gone down to the bank to remo nstrate and
was giv en a ten-dollar gold pi ece for each employee as a token on the
account, but before the week was out gold had been declared illegal tender .
Now Ro y began  “stewing,” to use his own word. W alt, who had no interest
in politics and whose primary interest in money was in reinvesting it in his
cartoons, was unsympathetic. “Quit worrying,” he shrugged. “People aren’ t
going to  stop living just because  the banks are closed. What the hell, we’ll
use any thing—make potatoes the medium of exchange—we’ll pay
everybody in potatoes.”
As it happened,  Pigs  was released on May 27, a little more than two
months after the inauguration and the bank holiday , and the timing couldn’ t
have been more fortunate. W ru ng out by the Depression and bolstered by
the new president, the nation seemed to convert the cartoon of two carefree
but shortsighted pigs and their hard-working, far -sighted brother into a
parable of suf fering (the wolf as economic adversity) and triumph (the
industrious little pig as the embo diment of President Roosevelt’ s New Deal
that promised the country relief), which was exactly how numerous political
cartoons at the time framed it. Film historian Lewis Jacobs said that the film
became “by force of circumsta nce and the time…a heartening call to the
people of a troub led country .” A few observers even credited it not just with
reflecting the Depression but with helping vanquish it. “No on e will ever
know to what e xtent it may be  held responsible for pulling us out of the
depression,” Ha rvard professor Robert D. Feild wrote a few years after its
release, “but certainly the lyrica l jeer at the Big Bad W olf contributed not a
little to the raising of people’ s sp irits and to their defiance of circumstance.”
In h is annual report W ill Ha ys, the president of the Motion Picture
Producers and Distributors of America, said that “historians of the future