# Página 753  
and were threatening his Carolwood house, the flames suddenly stopped
and veered away .
Despite his status—and despite  the “magnetic field,” as Ken Anderson
put i t, that he seemed to have ar ound him at the studio—most outsiders still
found hi m unpr epossessing. Edith Efron reporting in TV Guide  found him
“shy .” “His eyes are dull and preoccupied, his af fability mechanical and
heavy-handed,” she wrote. “H e gabs away slowly and randomly in
inarticulate, midwestern speech that would be appropriate to a r ural general
store. His shirt i s open, his tie crooked. One almost expects to see over -all
straps on his shoulders and wisps of hay in his hair .” Another reporter found
an “unearthly quality” about his  conversation and thought he “l aughs in the
wrong places.”
Of cours e, this image of him as the common man was lar gely c reated by
intention. W alt had cultivated it, even if he had long since outgrown it and
even if he had become an American institution that in the postwar period
seemed more an emperor than a n uncle. But he was still, after a ll the years
in the spotlight and after all the wealth he had accrued from Dis neyland and
WED, s urprisingly and genuine ly plebeian by temperament. By his own
admission he seldom read anyth ing other than a script. His sense of humor ,
while ne ver prur ient, did often r un to the scatological, and he laughed with
a de ep, guttural chortle. Though he was more likely to wear conservative
suits now , he u sually preferred a western kerchief with the S moke T ree
emblem to a tie,  unless the occasion demanded one, and when he wasn’ t in
the publ ic eye, he liked loose s weaters, either gray or blue, o r gabardine
jackets. He never wore jewelry , save for a DeMolay ring from h is youth and
a Cladag h ring that he had acqui red in Ireland of two hands holding a heart.
He w ore the sam e 14-carat gold Hamilton watch for over twenty years until
Lillian bought him a Rolex, and one of his few indulgences was a used
Mercedes 230 SL that he bough t late in life. The same barber cut his hair
for n early twenty-five years, and , preferring to drive his own car , he did not
have a regular chauf feur . His gastronomical tastes still ran to meat and
potatoes, chili and tapioca pudding. He still garbled words and still
peppered his speech with colloquialisms. Things were “ef fective as hell” or