# Página 36  
neighbor said. That same day H erbert and Ray withdrew their money from
the bank, and that night they crawled out a window of the house and hopped
a train for Chica go. The wound of their departure was so deep that nearly
one hundred years later , family members were still reluctant to  discuss the
incident. By the spring they had moved to Kansas City , where Uncle Robert
got them  jobs as bank clerks, an d in the summer of 1909 Herbert became a
mail car rier for the postal ser vice. They would occasionally visit their
parents in Marceline, but the rift never healed entirely . When Herbert and
Ray would send back their old clothes for Flora to alter for Ro y and W alt,
they sometimes stuck a plug of tobacco in a pocket, knowing it would
provoke their moralistic father .
W ithout Herbert and Ray’ s assistance, the farm became even more
burdensome. Elias, who was nothing if not hardworking, blamed his travails
on the system th at forced farmers to market their crops through middlemen
and trusts, taking the profits he  believed the farmers themselves deserved.
W ithin a month after his sons’ departure, Elias and M. A. Cof fman, the
neighbor who had picked up t he family upon their arrival in Marceline,
formed a chapter of the Americ an Society of Equity , which the y described
as a  farmer ’ s u nion. The society , headquartered in Dayton, Ohio, hoped
eventually to provide granaries, elevators, warehouses, and cold storage
throughout the country so that farmers could control their own crops,
regulate their own supply , and set their own prices. Farmers were receptive
—there were twenty-nine members at the chapter ’ s inception—but even in
pro-labor and progressive Marceline, Elias’ s involvement soon branded him
as a “radical,” according to a neighbor . He would not have disapproved of
the labe l. “He had high ideals a bout living,” his daughter said. “That was
when he became interested in th e philosophy of Socialism—which seemed
to him then to be a fair way for people to live.” He even called himself a
Socialist, claimed to have voted for the Socialist candidate for president,
Eugene V . Debs, and subscribed to the Appeal to Reason,  an ardently
Socialist journal for which Debs was an associate editor .
But Elia s’ s radicalism was an excuse, not a remedy . Like his orange
grove in Florida, the farm ult imately defeated him. Falling crop prices
across th e country squeezed him, exacerbated locally by a five- month-long