# Página 565  
cartoons had many virtues. Saludos Amigos  and The Thr ee Caballer os
notwithstanding, riotous ener gy was not one of them.
But it was riotous ener gy , not control, that most audiences as well as
most critics now appreciated and applauded—riotous ener gy that captured
the liberating force of a war th at had, in the words of historian David M.
Kennedy , “shak en the American people loose and shaken them  up,” and it
was riotous ener gy that made th e more sedate Disney animations seem dull
and anachronistic.
III
W alt Disney would not rest on the animations because he could  not rest  on
them anymore. He needed some thing less costly , something new to restore
the studio as well as his sense of self. Cartoons had become, W oolie
Reitherman said, a “pain in the ass to W alt: the personnel problems, waiting
around for animation to come in, changes, and all those things. I don’ t know
of any features t hat sailed through.” Reitherman might have ad ded that the
real reason for W alt’ s dismay w as that cartoons had become to o expensive
to d o as well as W alt Disney had done them. But there was a way around
these ob stacles, and W alt had a lready been considering it long before the
war , during the first economic pinch. He could reduce the amount of
animation neede d in a feature by combining the animation with live action,
which w as muc h cheaper and m uch faster to produce. He had  thought of
Alice in W onderland  as a prime pos sibility , with Alice as a real girl and
W onderland in animation—like the old Alice comedies he had made in the
1920 S.  But as the studio struggled with an Alice  script, W alt sei zed on a
new candidate: the Uncle Remus stories of Joel Chandler Harris. W alt
would animate the tales themsel ves, but to accommodate the live action he
would fr ame the m in a melodram a about a bullied and neglecte d white boy
who seeks solace in the wise Uncle Remus. Thus W alt would literally create
two distinct worlds—a “real” one and a fanciful one. It w as for W alt
Disney , said animator Marc Dav is, “a way to get into live actio n, and have
his cartoon too.”