# Página 566  
At l east since 1939, when he first began negotiating with th e Harris
family f or the rights, W alt had b een considering these stories, told in black
dialect by a retainer in the Reconstruction era, for an animated feature, and
by l ate summer of that year he had already had one of his storymen
synopsize the more promising tales and draw up four boards’ worth of story
sketches. A year later , in November , while on his way to th e Fantasia
premiere in New Y ork, W alt had stopped in Atlanta to visit the Harris home,
to meet the Harr is family , and as he told V ariety ,  “t o get an authe ntic feeling
of Uncle Remus country so we can do as faithful a job as possible to these
stories.” Roy had misgivings about the project, doubting that it was “big
enough in caliber and natural dr aft” to warrant a budget over $1 million and
more than twenty-five minutes of animation, but in June 1944, even before
the war ended, W alt hired a southern-born writer named Dalton Reymond to
write the  screenp lay , and he met  frequently that summer with Reymond, his
own staf f, and director King V idor , whom he was trying to interest in
making the live-action sequences. It may have been the only time during the
war afte r he had finished V ictory Thr ough Air Power  tha t W alt seemed
thoroughly engaged. W riter Ma urice Rapf, whom W alt had hired to assist
Reymond, called W alt “insatiable.” “He ended every conference by saying,
‘W ell, I think we’ve really licked it now ,’” Rapf would recall. “Then he’d
call you the next morning and say , ‘I’ve got a new idea.’ And  he’d have
one. Sometimes the ideas were g ood, sometimes they were terrible, but you
could never really satisfy him.”  Rapf didn’ t know it, but this was the W alt
Disney of old.
As R eymond and Rapf finished the screenplay late that summe r and the
studio announce d the project, a problem arose: members of the black
community protested that any film version of the Uncle Remus  stories was
bound to  portray  black Americans in a servile and negative way . A “vicious
piece of  hocus pocus,” one grou p called it. W alt Disney was no racist. He
never , either publicly or privately , made disparaging remarks about blacks
or assert ed white superiority . Like most white Americans of his generation,
however , he was racially insens itive. At a story meeting he had referred to
the dwarfs piling on top of one another in Snow White  as a “nigger pile,”
and in casting Song of the South  he noted a “swe ll little picaninny [ sic ]” he
had found. Like most Hollywoo d producers, he had also engag ed in racial