# Página 439  
Building and the rivalries that seemed to arise among the crews working on
dif ferent features, was a spirit o f collaboration. “I haven’ t felt that Bambi
was one  of our p roductions,” W alt confessed. He wanted to cha nge that. “I
want a group of  guys who will get together and will discuss the ir problems
and we will take  care of their recommendations,” he announced . “W e want
to find out what they think…and  I want it first-hand from them.” He called
for a “certain informality” in dis cussing ideas. And he went on: “I want the
story groups to get together . I want them to talk over their work… . I want to
get t he directors together and la yout and the background men…. W e must
find the most ef fective way to unify this plant. I want to unify it in such a
way that everybody will be working together .” He wanted the fun to return.
But this wasn’ t j ust a pep talk to rouse the troops or a summons  to regain
what they had h ad at Hyperion during the making of Snow White.  W alt
wanted, he said, to create a financial community as well as an artistic one.
He told the group that under t he animation rating system he expected a
salary adjustmen t of $150,000 on Pinocchio,  and he wanted to pay it out to
them in bonuses just as he had on Snow White.  But even that was not the
point. W alt said he had been working for some time on a lar ger scheme in
which each employee would be rated by his value to the company , his
tenure there, and his cooperation and ambition, then allotted a
commensurate share of the profits. It was, W alt told his employees, the only
way to ensure that the or gan ization would remain strong and would
continue to make quality films. It was, he even said, the only way to ensure
that the company would survive him “in case I got bumped of f.” “W e’ve
got to fix this th ing so the business won’ t collapse…. I’m afr aid that this
business will be thrown into the regular Hollywood groove an d that they
will star t throwi ng these cartoons at the public,” he said. “Maybe I’ve had
too many bad experiences. I kno w guys, though, who are like that. All they
think of  is how much money t hey can get out of a thing.” A t Disney it
would be dif ferent. Everyone would have a stake in the company’ s ongoing
success. Everyo ne would have a stake in maintaining quality , which W alt
had always felt was the key to success. He wasn’ t sure how  he would
distribute the money—whether he would issue preferred stock , which he
hesitated to do, or set up an em ployees’ fund, which he also disliked, or