# Página 98  
us to do and how  we were to do it,” remembered John Records, who played
Jimmie Jones. “W e all liked him immediately .” Records told another
interviewer that  it was obvious  W alt liked kids and knew how to handle
them. At the end  of the shooting  he brought them into the of fice, where the
animators were bent over their desks working on the fairy  tales, and
rewarded the children with five- or ten-dollar bills.
But the fifty or sixty dollars W alt said he finally cleared from the film
hardly p rovided a respite, especially when the T ennessee branch of Pictorial
Clubs declared bankruptcy just months after concluding its deal with
Laugh-O-Gram. The New Y ork parent of Pictorial assumed the assets of its
T ennessee outlet but none of that company’ s debts, triggering a long process
of Laugh-O-Gram trying to enforce a contract for which it had already done
significant work  and toward which it had a substantial obligation. By early
January 1923, with the economic pressure intensifying, W alt was being
dunned by his l andlord for failure to pay the of fice rent, and it was only
through the lar gesse of Dr . C owles again that the company eventually
covered that debt, the light and t elephone bills, and the salary still owed the
departed Leslie Mace. Still, even with the loans from Cowle s and from
hardware store impresario Fred  Schmeltz, the firm had nothin g to spare.
Kloepper recalled leaving Cowles’ s of fice with W alt after picking up the
payroll one Friday and seeing a  dollar bill in the gutter . “I thi nk we both
made a grab for it,” Kloepper said, “but I got the dollar bill. And  I held it up
and I said, ‘W a lt, we’re going to have lunch.’ And we did, on the dollar
bill.”
But W alt, the go-getter , still  had not surrendered hopes for success. W ith
no mone y in the of fing from Pictorial or any other source, he presented a
new scheme that February . He announced a series of shorts that would
combine “anima ted cartoons and spicy jokes.” In truth, he had a lready done
so with the Laf flets, and he simply hired a woman to detach them from the
beginning of the fairy tales and re-edit them for distribution. That month he
began contacting New Y ork distributors, among them Universal Pictures,
even w riting a nother prospec tive buyer , in an obvious attempt at
brinkmanship, that Universal was considering the Laf flets. This campaign
also proved fruitless. “W e hav e looked at your product and think the