# Página 789  
started naming the chapters she  felt we should adapt—and they were the
ones we thought were absolutely unusable.” Even on the eve of production,
after a full year of delays, T rav ers was writing extensive criticisms of the
script, an d W alt was writing to t hank her and assure her that “we will make
use of it whenever we can.”
She was no more for giving when it came to the casting of the film. In
March 1961, just before T ravers arrived in California, W alt and Lillian had
seen Mary Martin in New Y ork in the stage musical The Sou nd of Music,
and W al t had wired to ask her to consider the role of Poppin s. W alt also
suggested that T ravers see the p lay on her way out to the stud io, and she
did, even requesting a meeting  with the actress. T ravers, ho wever , had
decided that Julie Harris should  play the role, even though the film was to
be a musical and Harris had demonstrated no talent in that area . Harris, no
doubt at T ravers’ s ur ging, had written W alt to express her interest, forcing
him to decline her services.
Meanwhile that August, W alt sa w the musical Camelot  in New Y ork and
came away so impressed by the twenty-seven-year -old English actress Julie
Andrews, who played Queen G uinevere, that he promptly concluded she,
not Mary Martin, should be Poppins. Though Andrews was relatively
unknown at the time—she had starred in the original Broadway production
of My Fair Lady —W alt assiduously courted her for nearly a year , inviting
her to fly out to the studio. “W e can play the songs, lay out the story line
and I am sure after seeing this sort of presentation you will be able to make
your dec ision,” W alt wrote her . Accepting the of fer to come to the studio,
Andrews, now pregnant, and her husband, the costume-and-set designer
T ony W alton, spent a weekend with W alt in June 1962, though even then
W alt wa sn’ t leav ing anything to chance. He of fered W alton a job consulting
on the film’ s design, and he later arranged to have a handicappe d patient of
W alton’ s father , a doctor , come to America for a special operation. Like
T ravers, Andrew s was hesitant t o commit herself to a Disney film, her first
film, with all that the Disney name now connoted, but W alt was helped
considerably by the fact that W arner Bros. head Jack W arner had recently
bypassed her in favor of Audrey Hepburn for the role that A ndrews had
coveted—Eliza Doolittle in the screen version of My Fair Lady —because,