# Página 437  
columnist Hedda Hopper chirped shortly after the move. “After lunch you’ll
find executives playing everyth ing from softball to ping pong  with their
employees.” She cited the oft-repeated fact that everyone called the boss
“W alt.” A New Y ork T imes  reporter visiting the studio later that year wrote
in a similar vein that a “walk across the lawns at noon was like a walk
through Central Park on Sunday . Employees sat or reclined leis urely on the
grass; t hey called, ‘Hello, W alt…Hi, W alt…W alt…W alt.’ And Disney
waved a nd halloed back”—an ef fect that was underscored by t he fact that
the stud io’ s streets were named after Disney characters: Dopey Drive and
Mickey A venue . Others described the same old practical jokes, the same
collegiality , the same devotion, the same sense of purpose as at Hyperion.
“[Y]ou can’ t help feeling that you’re going to grab that goddam Holy
Grail,” o ne emp loyee told a writer doing a story on the new studio for The
Atlantic Monthly .  A  dancer who h ad performed some live action for “Dance
of the Hours” w rote W alt thankfully , saying, “Everyone seemed happy and
contented” and attributing it to W alt’ s “good humor , kindness and
courteousness.”
But something had changed—something inef fable but impo rtant that
undermined the sense of happiness and contentment. After the initial flush
of appreciation, some employees began to feel as if the studio were too
good, too  perfect. The “collegiate atmosphere became almost oppressive,”
one emp loyee complained. Another recalled, “Everything looked so nice I
almost f elt like wearing a tie.” Before the studio moved to B urbank, Joe
Rosenber g, the banker , had warned W alt vaguely that the new plant would
be so nice “ you will  cause discontent! ” He was right. Some char ged it to a
new sen se of impersonality now that the studio was bigger and more
routinized. Olli e Johnston said that if you wanted to talk to a fellow
animator , you now had to walk p ast secretaries or up and down floors. Even
W alt now had t wo adjoining of fices—one he called a formal  of fice, the
other a working of fice—dow n a long corridor and guard ed by two
secretaries who ef fectively cut him of f from the rest of the studio. Another
Disney e mployee believed that the attempts at greater ef ficiency , inef fective
as they usually were, had nevertheless taken hold, sapping the new studio of
the old Hyperion informality and spirit. Instead of what this employee
called an “impromptu art form,” Disney animation had become an “ef ficient