# Página 726  
camera i s closer to being a printing press, in the way we use it, than it is to
being a motion picture camera .” What Schwartz meant is that animation
should b e the handmaiden not of film, as it was at the Disney studio, or of
comic strips, but of design, and that it should be a product not of popular
culture but of hi gh art. (Of course Disney had had the same rev elation, but
the nece ssity of making money k ept him from doing much about it, save his
aborted flirtation with Dali.) As Hilberman explained the evolution of UP A,
“It w as simply that you had d esigners who had art training who were
beginning to push out and feel their oats. People who knew w ho Picasso
was and  could recognize a Mati sse across the room. And here they were at
Disney , W arners, working on this really corny , cute stuf f. They were ready .
UP A was the first studio that was run by design people, and we were talking
to an adult aud ience, to our peers.” “[O]ur approach was a painterly
approach, or an artist’ s approach ,” said Jules Engel, another for mer Disney
animator who had gone to UP A, “[the approach of someone] who was
aware of the flat surface and knew what the hell that is all about.”
As e nemies of Disney , both pol itically and aesthetically , UP A animators
consciously forswore all the hallmarks of Disney animation: the realism, the
depth, the sense of gravity and secondary ef fects, the sentimentality and
emotional af fec t, even the animals that Disney typically featured. “They
thought they [Disney cartoons] were dead,” animator Bill Melendez said of
UP A ’ s se nse of superiority and sophistication. “W e had a very low opinion
of Disney .” They disdained W ar ner Bros. cartoons too, dismissing slapstick,
in the words of one former W arners writer who came to work for UP A, as
“W arner Bros. humor .” When it came to technique, UP A animators were
interested less in movement or the development of personality than in
graphics, in how shapes played on a flat surface; their inspirations were the
Bauhaus, Klee, Kandinsky , Du fy , and Léger . When it came  to subject
matter , they were masters of w hat one animation critic called the “wry
grimace: self-mockery per se”; their inspirations here were New Y orker
cartoons and other sources of what they considered mature, understated
humor .
For all its antagonism toward Disney—Art Babbitt had gone to work for
UP A—and for all its artistic sel f-consciousness, UP A was also  very much