# Página 175  
didn’ t in clude the royalties to Powers for the Cinephone sys tem, or the
onerous yearly $13,000, or the debt to record Steamboat W illie,  which the
Disneys were still paying of f ne arly a year later . By May , W alt had received
nearly $40,000 in fees and rentals from Powers, but he had to pay
distribution cos ts and expenses, and had to retire loans, l eaving him
virtually nothing , especially since he had expanded his staf f and was paying
the new animators well. “The m oney has been coming in at a pretty fair
rate,” Roy determined later that summer , saying that W illie  alone had
grossed $15,000 and might eventually gross $25,000, “the question is what
are the expenses —and they are enough you can bet.” At the same time W alt
was carrying the expenses of th e recording studio, which despite his sunny
predictions had yet to turn a pro fit and was draining money . He had, in fact,
tried to borrow $2,500 from Powers to help keep it afloat.
T o extri cate himself from his financial predicament, W alt thought of
trying an old remedy—turning out the Mickeys faster , one every two weeks,
and making a S illy Symphony every month, adding up to thirty-eight or
thirty-nine cartoons annually in  all—but he would have needed another
infusion of $10,000 to do so, and Powers refused, sticking to the original
twenty-six short s. T rying another tack, he had a friend make newsreels to
sell to Powers, but Giegerich an d another of Powers’ s associates, Ed Smith,
“queered it.” That June he even shot a sound short of film stars—Al Jolson,
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr ., and Joan Crawford among them—attend ing a movie
premiere, and W ill Rogers deliv ering an informal dinner speech, for a series
he calle d Hollywood Screen Star News, and dangled it before Columbia
Pictures, but they too demurred.
Increasingly desperate, W alt began hiking to studios again with his
animations, hoping to interest one of them in securing the rights from
Powers. The writer Frances M arion claimed that two editors at Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer had seen Disney’ s cartoons and recommended them to
Marion and Metro directors Geor ge Hill and V ictor Fleming. Standing in
the p rojection room, W alt was, as Marion remembered, a “tall , shy youth
who wore a shabby suit and whose apprehensive glance at us told very
clearly of many past disappointments.” He even apologized for the
crudeness of the animations. But the group was enthralled by Mickey;