# Página 438  
business.” At least one animato r attributed the change to a change in W alt
himself now that he was even  more insulated from his employees and
spread e ven thin ner than before. “When Disney began to get the idea for
this Burbank studio,” the anima tor said, “he became a dif ferent man. From
a man who worked closely and collectively with his workers he got to be
boss.” He even described W alt at Burbank as a despot.
Whatever it was that had happ ened, many employees would,  in time,
come to think of the move to Burbank as, in the words of one, a “line of
demarcation in the era of good feeling” and the “beginning of a loss of
morale.” Just how thick the line of demarcation was, W alt would discover a
year later .  
W alt himself noticed that somet hing was changing. A year earli er , amid the
production delays, he had been concerned about flagging morale and
pushed Roy to rent a theater so that W alt could address the em ployees and
announce a new wave of bon uses to be paid over time. “[I]t was his
thought,” Geor ge Morris told Roy , “that he wanted to keep the spirit of the
or ganization up so that he would get the full benefit of the announcement
and later payment when he mos t needed that cooperative ef fort from those
who participate in it.” That didn’ t happen, but on January 30, 1940, after the
move to  Burbank and with Pinocchio  fi nally about to be released, W alt
convened select ed employees in room 3C12 of the Animation B uilding. As
he addressed them over the next two hours and forty-five minutes, in what
may hav e been the single most  exuberant and soul-baring performance of
his l ife, he was bursting with confidence. The studio was now la r ge enough,
he s aid, that th ey could do whatever they wanted to do—w hatever he
wanted to do—and he described how they would henceforth have three
units working simultaneously o n three features. “This plant, this studio—
it’ s more  than an ordinary thing ,” he said with emotion. “There  is a certain
spirit that prevails here. I can see it in the guys. They have a feeling that it
isn’ t a racket.” But what he wanted, what he hoped for , what h e may have
begun to sense he was losing with the new divisions in the  Animation