# Página 149  
Jackson may have been only twenty-two and a newcomer , but he sensed
that som ething was amiss at the studio. At the end of his first week that
April, he noticed that the animators not only collected their hats and coats at
closing t ime but  also their pens,  their pencils, and even their seat cushions.
Jackson also noted the frigid atmosphere that was the result  of distrust
between W alt’ s loyalists and the  defectors. The distrust was in tensified by
the fact  that while the defect ors were animating Oswald, Iwerks was
animating Mick ey surreptitiousl y—surreptitiously because he and W alt did
not wan t anyon e to know their  plan and possibly steal their idea. Iwerks
called himself an “outcast,” saying he worked on Plane Crazy  in a locked
room at the Hyperion studio and kept other cartoons on his table so that he
could quickly cover the Mickey drawings should anyone enter the room.
Frequently he worked at night after the others had left for the  day . Hugh
Harman recalled that the loyal animators worked behind a high black
curtain o r scrim  to prevent him and the others from seeing “the great secret
that was going on.”
And they worked outside the s tudio too, where the defectors could not
observe them. “The first Mickey Mouse was made by twelve people after
hours in  a garage,” W alt would write—his garage on L yric A venue. Of the
twelve, however , only one animated: Iwerks. Iwerks had heard that Bill
Nolan, w hom W alt had tried to recruit on his trip, could pen as many as six
hundred drawings a day , so Iwer ks admitted that as a point of pe rsonal pride
he “real ly extended” himself, doing seven hundred drawings a day . When
Iwerks h ad finis hed, W alt put be nches in his garage, and Lillian , Edna, and
his siste r -in-law Hazel Sewell inked and painted the cels while longtime
employee Mike Marcus cranked  the animation camera—at night so that the
other animators  would not suspect that he was diverting tim e to W alt’ s
secret project.
Given the pressure of trying to turn out Plane Crazy  as quic kly as
possible so that W alt could find a distributor and keep his company afloat, it
was gru eling work. (The first char ges on the company ledger  against the
film wer e listed on April 30, a w eek before the defectors were to  finish their
last Osw ald and  leave the Disn ey studio, and the film was completed by
May 15 at a cost of $1,772.) And since W alt was working on speculation