# Página 517  
It w as not only his name that w as imperious. So was the man. Seversky
was the son of an opera singer who was the first Russian to own and operate
his o wn private plane. At forty-e ight, the major made a dramatic impression
himself with heavy-lidded, deep -set green eyes, an aquiline nose, full lips,
and dark  hair tinged with gray t hat swept back from a thick widow’ s peak.
He h ad a n of fice  on the thirty-fo urth floor of Rockefeller Center , where the
only signed photograph among the memorabilia was one of General Billy
Mitchell, the champion of Amer ican air power . He also owned a townhouse
on C entral Park and a beachho use in Northport, Long Island. Supremely
confident, Seversky , like his friend Billy Mitchell, didn’ t hesitate to take on
the military establishment, which was exactly what he was doing now . His
book, titled V ictory Thr ough  Air Power ,  p ropou nded the  thesis that, as he
put it, “[o]nly ai r power can car ry an of fensive war to the enemy , and only
the of fensive can win the war .” In essence both the army infantry and the
navy battleships  were irrelevant. He further proposed that air power now
made it possible “to reduce an  enemy nation to helplessness without the
time-honored preliminaries of invasion and mile-by-mile conquest.” And he
maintained that the best way to achieve this objective was with long-range
bombers with heavy payloads attacking our enemies’ nerve centers rather
than through small aircraft flying from carriers.
When th e book was published in late April 1942, it became an immediate
best sell er—it w ould wind up th e fifth best-selling book of the year—but it
also stirred controversy and re buttals. The Philadelphia Recor d  thought
Seversky discounted the cooper ation between the services that was needed
for v ictory . The W ashington Post  said he relegated “all other weapons to a
class with the javelin and c rossbow .” The New Y ork Daily News
complained that it would take until 1945 to have enough long-range
bombers to fulfill Seversky’ s mi ssion, and The New Y ork T imes  opined that
if Se versky could guarantee whe re the theater of war would be in two years
and wh at kind of aircraft would be needed, the “military  and naval
authorities will receive the information with delight.”
But if the critics—and most of the military—were skeptical, W alt Disney
was enc hanted. W alt loved technology generally , and he believed fervently
in the airplane s pecifically . “The thing that I felt just went right along with