# Página 470  
much more accessible and likely to fraternize. “Y ou could pu t your arm
around R oy’ s sh oulder , too, and did,” Frank Thomas said. “Not with W alt.”
For all his bonho mie and his ins istence on being called “W alt,” he was now
distant—if not exactly a despot, as the one employee had called him, then at
least the “boss.”
Only to those w ho had known him before his celebrity—his fa mily and
boyhood friends and even his earliest employees—was he gracious and
loyal, ap parently feeling that they had been loyal to him when they hadn’ t
needed to be.* That was no doubt one of the reasons he lured W alt Pfeif fer
to the studio and then kept giving him new assignments even as he failed at
the old ones, and  one of the reasons he hired his old McKinley H igh School
classmate Bianc a Majolie in the story department. W alt took one guard with
him from Hyperion to Burbank to patrol the front gate even though the man
was ofte n inebriated, because, one employee speculated, “[h]e’d  stuck with
Disney during some hard times and W alt would never fire him.”
Perhaps the most dramatic dem onstration of his regard for the ghosts of
his p ast was his  treatment of t he man who had committed what was, in
W alt’ s m ind, on e of the worst betrayals: his old partner , Ub Iwerks. After
leaving the studio abruptly in 1930, lured by the blandishm ents of Pat
Powers, Iwerks had fallen on hard times. His own studio had fai led, forcing
him to subcontract with W arn er Bros. and then Columbia, but these
arrangements w ere ultimately terminated too. “He was one of the first—if
not the  fi rst—to give h is characters depth and roundness,” animator C huck
Jones explained. “But he didn’ t have any story capacity , and I don’ t think he
knew very much about humor; he wasn’ t a funny man at all.”  In 1940 he
was teac hing an imation at a loc al vocational school and had g otten up the
nerve to write W alt that July abo ut the possibility of opening a school of his
own, presumabl y to help train Disney animators. W alt referred the letter to
V ern Ca ldwell in  personnel, who dismissed the suggestion. Meanwhile Ben
Sharpsteen, hearing about Iwerk s’ s plight, phoned him, said that starting a
school would be “belittling,” and of fered him a job checking animation,
which Iwerks gratefully accepted. Sharpsteen was obviously trying to
broker a  rapprochement between Iwerks and W alt, and when h e told W alt
that he had asked Iwerks back, W alt said it was Sharpsteen’ s pr erogative to