# Página 388  
am,” he answered. “ The  W alt Disney?” she questioned.  When he chortled
that he was, she asked for his a utograph. He would chase the girls around
the h ouse, cackling like the witc h from Snow White,  or he w ould twi rl them
endlessly by their heels, “for hours and hours,” Diane would  say , or he
would stand in the swimming p ool and let them climb to his shoulders. “I
thought that my father was the strongest man in the world and the most
fun,” Di ane recalled. At night h e read to them. And on the wee kends, after
he picke d them up from church,  he would take them either to G rif fith Park
to ride the merry-go-round or to  the studio, where they would follow him as
he s nooped about, or pedal their bikes around the empty grounds while he
worked. “They used to love to go with me in those days,” W alt would
reminisce. “And  that [ sic ] w as some of t he happiest days of my life. They
were in love with their dad.”  
In the wake of Snow White  even the usually dolorous Roy was excited. That
April, w ith the film raking in $ 200,000 a week, he had gone to Europe to
work on foreign distribution de als and to conduct an acquisiti on spree of
properties for future features. The Disneys had already secured rights to A.
A. M ilne’ s classic W innie the Pooh  (Diane always hugged a ragged W innie
the P ooh doll when she went to bed) and Kenneth Grahame’ s The W ind in
the W illows,  a nd they were  negotiating for the rights to Don Marquis’ s
Ar chy and Mehitabel,  a bout a precocious cockroach  and a cat. While in
England, Roy struck a deal for rights to Sir John T enniel’ s drawings for
Alice in W onderland,  and he had hashed out an odd agreement for Peter
Pan  wit h the Great Ormond Street  Hospital, the institution to wh ich Sir
James B arrie ha d willed the rights to his play when he died in 1937; the
hospital had granted the Disney s the opportunity to make an arrangement
with Paramount  Pictures, which had acquired the live-action screen rights
for Peter Pan,  and failing that, it was willing to sell them the cartoon rights,
thus keeping them from the Fleischers, who were embarking o n their own
program of cartoon features. Even so, upon Roy’ s return from this European
foray , a reporter  commented that he “still wears the look of a man who isn’ t
quite sure yet whether the time has come to stop worrying.”