# Página 1178  
had an inflated sense of his ow n importance, seemed to keep everything,
even a postcard he drew for his mother when he was a boy , and  the archive
has retained nearly all of this d etritus. When I embarked on th is project, I
endeavored to read every letter , memo, story meeting transcript, financial
ledger , chart, desk diary , annotation, and doodle in the collection in
chronological o rder so that I  would be in the moment with W alt,
experiencing as best I could wh at he was feeling and thinking  at the time
and over time. T here are, needless to say , tens if not hundreds o f thousands
of these items. I do not know w hether I succeeded in reading them all—the
archive continua lly springs surprises—but I was told that only D avid Smith,
the l ongtime archivist, and I have even made the attempt. It took years, and
I can only hope that the reader will feel rewarded by the ef fort.
Other major sources for this bio graphy are the recollections of t hose who
knew W alt Disney . I conducted dozens of interviews, typically two to three
hours in length. Diane Disney Miller , W alt’ s only surviving daughter , not
only sub mitted to a lengthy int erview but graciously and generously sent
me h er observations and answer ed questions as I reviewed the manuscript.
As for the interv iews with W alt’ s employees, I had a slight disa ppointment.
I qu ickly discovered that those who had worked most intimate ly with him
were now gone, that those who  survived knew him only glancingly (W alt
would have turned one hundred on December 5, 2001), and that as the
studio expanded  he so compartmentalized himself that no one really could
be cons idered a true intimate. Nearly all of those I intervie wed—even
remarkable individuals like the animators Frank Thomas and Ollie
Johnston, who were mainstays of the studio—had, when one considers how
long the y toiled there, surprisingly few personal encounters with W alt. (One
employee I interviewed who had logged several decades at the studio and
occupied a position of some importance could scarcely recall more than a
few tim es he met individually with W alt.) Fortunately the archive houses
dozens if not hundreds of inte rviews with Disney family members and
studio em ployees, including those who worked most closely with him in the
early ye ars, and while no single interview provides or could be expected to
provide an all-illuminating reve lation, taken together they yield as vivid a
portrait of W alt Disney as we ar e likely to get. Again, I have tried diligently
to read all of these transcripts and listen to the tapes when transcripts do not