# Página 170  
Stalling-inspired new series, which he called Silly Symphonies. He had had
Ub rush the an imation of The Skeleton Dance  so that  he could begin
recording Stallin g’ s track and show the film to prospective distr ibutors, and
Powers was already talking about a twelve-cartoon package, but W alt
admitted that he was disappointed in what he saw . He sent it back to New
Y ork in early M arch after it had  been completed, and had Powe rs screen it,
but distributors found the dancing spooks odd and even gruesome, and
Powers couldn’ t  get a sale. W alt tried to get an exhibitor to show it in Los
Angeles and met the same rea ction. Y et he maintained an u nwavering,
instinctive confidence in the Symphonies. “It’ s hard to explain j ust what we
have in mind f or this series,” W alt confessed to Giegerich, “but I feel,
myself, that it w ill be something unusual and should have a w ide appeal.”
Several months later , hoping th at he might get Fred Miller , who managed
the p restigious Carthay Circle Theater in Los Angeles, to watch  it as he had
gotten Harry Reichenbach to watch W illie,  W alt buttonhol ed a friend who
knew a film salesman who knew Miller . W alt found the salesman in a pool
hall. He agreed to take a look, li ked it, and got it to Miller , who also liked it
and agreed to ru n it at the Carthay on a temporary basis, wher e it became
the first cartoon ever programmed there. The audience responded positively ,
but W alt, who at tended the screening with Iwerks, wasn’ t certain . “Are they
laughing at us or with us?” he asked.
Giegerich was less than pleased with W alt’ s ef forts, thinking that the
showing at Carthay would undermine his ef forts to sell the Silly
Symphonies nationally , but W al t countered that the cartoon was “making a
big hit” and “attracting an unusual amount of attention,” including a
favorable notice in the Los Angeles T imes,  that could only help their
prospects. When  Fred Miller ask ed to book the cartoon for an ex tended run,
W alt wr ote Pow ers that “Fox o f ficials will be sold 100 percen t when they
hear the  audience reaction opening nite.” W alt was right. Where exhibitors
had hesitated over the cartoon’ s macabre escapades, audiences and critics
seemed to swoon. “Here is one of the most novel cartoon su bjects ever
shown o n a screen,” gushed Film Daily .  Samuel “Roxy” Rothapfel, the
impresario at the grand Roxy Theater in New Y ork, booked it and then
wrote W alt that it was “without exception one of the cleverest th ings I have
seen, and as you know , the audience enjoyed every moment of it.” One