# Página 690  
because, he told them, Disney land wouldn’ t be an amusement park and
because he wanted young peopl e who would be willing to learn and make
mistakes. T o be the general director of the project, he hired a  tall, thirty-
three-year -old Oklahoman named C. V . W ood, who had b een both a
champion lariat twirler and the director of industrial engineering at an
aircraft company during the war before becoming the manager of the Los
Angeles branch of the economic research division of Stanford Research
Institute, which  had done the feasibility studies for the park.  W ood was
charming and af fable with a do wn-home manner and a thick southwestern
drawl—“the mo st winning and likable personality that one could ever
expect t o find,” said one acquai ntance—and he had acquitted himself well
while at SRI by  using that char m to coax holdouts on the Ball subdivision
to sell their land to Disney . W alt was charmed too. “W alt reacted to him the
way the farmer reacts to the fas t-talking city slicker ,” recalled Buzz Price.
W ood, in  turn, recruited a retired admiral named Joe Fowler , who had once
headed the San Francisco Navy Y ard, as a consultant, though  W alt later
“trapped” the admiral, as W alt put it, into assuming the role of construction
supervisor . The of ficers set them selves up in two old ranch houses on the
site, where, just as at the old writers’ apartment at Hyperion, the staf f
commandeered the kitchen, dini ng rooms, even closets. W alt’ s of fice was in
a bedroom. There was a single bathroom in the facility .
They broke ground on July 12, 1 954, which meant that they had to finish
within a year to meet W alt’ s self-imposed deadline. Everyone had to rush. A
structural engine er , who had been hired to assist in designing the buildings
and coo rdinating with the WED staf f, had to lay out foundations and
framing even before the archite ctural details were finished, which caused
problems, especially on Main Street. And there were other problems. The
soil in Anaheim was so sandy and porous that the Rivers of A merica kept
seeping into the ground and cla y soil had to be trucked to the site. Unions
were ag grieved. A strike at the  Orange County plant that was supplying
asphalt necessit ated hauling asphalt from San Diego. A plum bers’ strike
limited the number of water fountains that could be installed  before the
opening. One group of disgrunt led machinists “for got” to bring their tools,
while another crew of laborers cut the wires on the Mr . T oad ride because
they wer e angry at being driven  so hard. On one occasion union painters at