# Página 527  
Starr , wh o had praised the film, “but your wire and editorial com ment raises
our hope s that we have achieved  what we aimed for when we f irst decided
to m ake it.” The n he added rem orsefully , “One thing we learned from this
experience[,] an d that is we’ll never again spend so much time on another
subject.”  
It was a painful admission. W alt Disney had lived  to spen d time on his
features, lived  t o create a fully  realized universe that testified to his power
and provided his escape. But  Bambi  wa s a remind er of how mu ch
everything had changed since th e strike and the advent of war . The war had
imposed a kind of grimness on Burbank. At Roy’ s ur ging the studio had
been classified as a strategic def ense industry , and every employee was now
fingerprinted and given a bright orange identification badge. At the same
time, ev en though W alt personally visited draft boards to ins ist that his
animation was a vital service for the war ef fort (he even dug out his old
V eterans of Foreign W ars badge to show up a “billboard patriot” on one
board who expressed skepticism  about the value of the studio’ s work), 173
employees, incl uding W oolie Reitherman and Frank Thomas, had left the
studio for the armed forces— almost 28 percent of the sta f f. Soldiers
patrolled the lot, protecting a top -secret bombsight that was stationed there,
and one naval o f ficer who supervised the production of The Rules of the
Nautical Road  commandeered the bedroom of f W alt’ s of fice to live in,
washing his clothes there in a b ucket. Animators even fired small rockets
of f t he Animation Building roof  to see the patterns of the explosions so that
they cou ld bette r draw them. A dding to the military presence w as the fact
that Lockheed was renting space on the lot. And then there was the wartime
economizing. Employees carpooled to save gasoline, as did W alt. Upset
with the new militarization of the studio, Carl Barks, an animator who
would later become the main force behind the Donald Duck comic books,
left. “Y o u were just going to be  locked in there for the duration,” he said,
“and I just didn’ t think I wan ted to be locked into that place for the
duration.”