# Página 171  
young a spiring animator name d Joseph Barbera sat in the Roxy’ s third
balcony watching The Skeleton Dance  “ab out seventy miles from the
screen” but said the “impact o n me was tremendous nevertheless. I saw
these skeletons dancing in a row and in unison, and I asked myself: How do
you do  that? How do you make that happen?”
As another prong of his assault, all the time that W alt was manically
promoting his new sound opera tion and the Silly Symphonies, he was also
replenishing his staf f with top-rated animators in expectation of having to
produce both the Mickeys and the new series—as many as thirty-six new
cartoons that year . While he had been in New Y ork in February ,  W alt, again
with the  encouragement of Powers, who seemed to want the Mickeys as
quickly as possible, had intervie wed potential recruits and wound up hiring
Burt Gillett, an animation veteran who was working at Pat Sullivan’ s studio
drawing Felix the Cat (“which he says are not so hot”) and whom W alt
described as a “damn clever fellow .” Gillett recommended Ben Sharpsteen,
who had  worked  under him year s earlier animating the Mutt and  Jef f series.
When W alt returned from New Y ork, he wrote Sharpsteen, then freelancing
in San Francisco, and invited him out to the studio. Before meeting with
W alt, Sharpstee n had dinner with Bill Nolan and W alter Lan tz, another
animator , both of whom advis ed him not to join Disney because sound
cartoons were too limited to su cceed. But when Sharpsteen met W alt—he
walked a mile from the streetcar stop to Hyperion—W alt was  so excited
about sound that he grabbed se veral Mickeys and drove Sharpsteen to a
downtown theat er to show the m. (The studio still did not have its own
screening room. ) Sharpsteen was impressed by the quality and joined the
studio late in March at $125 a week, more than twice as mu ch as W alt
himself was earning in salary at the time.
Over the next s everal months W alt added Jack King, a highly regarded
animator from New Y ork, and N orman Fer guson, another New Y orker , who
had animated the Aesop’ s Fables that W alt had so admired. W alt also
attempted to recruit the primary  animators for Felix the Cat— Al Eugster
and Otto  Messm er . “It was pre ssure!” Messmer remembered. “He begged
and plea ded.” But Messmer was settled in New Y ork, and in any case he
felt that Felix would continue forever . Later that summer of 1929 Roy went