# Página 459  
morning. He wrote that “motion picture history was made at the Broadway
Theatre last night” and called Fantasia  as “terr ific as anything that has ever
happened on screen.” He ended his notice with a nod to the war: “It’ s a
tremendous blessing these days. ” The T imes  edit orial page a lso praised the
film for  its “fusion of music, d rama and graphic art” and, lik e Crowther ,
said that W alt Disney had made history by bringing them together .
But if the evening and the earl y returns were triumphant, many of the
later returns cast a pall.* Wh ile film critics were lar gely  enchanted, some
music cr itics co mplained that the film did a disservice to the c lassics. (As
Stokowski had predicted, many of them were of fended by W alt’ s
interpretation of  the “Pastorale.”) Olin Downes of The New Y ork T imes
lavishly praised  the sound repr oduction but found the film its elf a mess,
trying to do too much. “It is clea r ,” he wrote accurately a few days after the
premiere in a Su nday considerat ion, “that in many cases Mr . Disney’ s noble
and highly provocative experiment separated certain lovers of the respective
arts rath er than united them.” O thers thought that Disney hadn’ t despoiled
art b ut had fina lly capitulated to it. Otis Fer guson of The New Republic,
who had been one of W alt’ s most ardent admirers, called Fantasia  “his first
mistake” because it had pretensions. “First Chaplin learns about class
struggle,” Fer gu son wrote, referring to Chaplin’ s Modern T imes,  “now
Disney meets the Performing Pole,” meaning Stokowski.
The hars hest criticisms, however , were political. Harry Raymo nd in the
Daily W orker  gru mbled that even left-wing  critics were so beguiled by
Fantasia ’ s technical achievements that they failed to recognize how
reactionary the film really was, especially at a time of international crisis.
“The fo rces of evil are not shown as the exploiters and war m akers,” he
said, “but as a mythical devil on a mountain top against wh om human
powers are helpless.” In short, W alt had abdicated personal and social
responsibility for what Raymond, obviously thinking of “Bald Mountain”
and “A ve Maria,” called “theo logy .” Far more stinging was nationally
syndicated columnist Dorothy T hompson, who seethed that she had left the
theater “ in a condition bordering  on a nervous breakdown” and felt as if she
had been subjected to an “assa ult”—a “brutalization of sensib ility in this
remarkable nig htmare.” Thom pson’ s complaint was that Disney and