# Página 266  
shoddy , which angered both W alt and Roy—and the interval from the
conception of a product to its marketing was often interminably long.
Despairing that the Bor gfeldt company insuf ficiently exploited the character
but y et b eing lo cked into the co ntract, the Disneys had even en listed Harry
W oodin of the Mickey Mouse Clubs and Irving Lesser , the  brother of
producer Sol Lesser , to troll for marketing opportunities that Bor gfeldt
seemed disinclined to find.
And then into this morass strode Herman Kamen, known to everyone—
and Kamen did seem to know  everyone—as “Kay .” Kame n was, one
acquaintance said, “one of the homeliest men I had ever seen.” He was a
lar ge, shapeless,  ungainly man with a spatulate nose and thick  pop-bottle-
bottomed glasses, and he parted his black hair unfashionably down the
middle o f his scalp, only adding to the impression of his gauc heness. Y et
this look was pa rtly by design. O ne associate said that Kamen was proud of
his hom eliness and used it to  ingratiate himself with customers in his
chosen profession, at which he was a master . Kay Kamen was born to sell.
He h ad c ome from a Jewish family in Baltimore, quit school to become a
hat salesman, and after years on the road, where he became an expert
pinochle player ,  joined a department store promotional firm in K ansas City .
He a nd a collea gue there, an ad vertising man named Streeter Blair , left to
form their own company , Kamen-Blair , also headquartered in Kansas City ,
which, l ike the one they had de parted, specialized in creating displays and
campaigns for department stores. One of those displays, for a store in Los
Angeles, appare ntly caught W alt Disney’ s eye early in 1932, w hen he was
burning over Bor gfeldt’ s dereliction, and he wired Kamen to gauge his
interest in promoting Mickey Mouse. Kamen, then in New Y ork on
business, left for California that very day .
When he  arrived  at the studio, as Roy remembered it, Kamen walked into
Roy’ s of fice and  said, “I don’ t know how much business you’r e doing, but
I’ll gua rantee you that much business and give you fifty percent of
everything I do over .” It was a sign both of his salesmanship and of the
rather of fhanded  way the company conducted business that they signed a
contract with him that July , af ter the Bor gfeldt agreement had expired.