# Página 771  
What W alt really seemed to wa nt was the challenge, the excite ment, the
race to the wire, to prove once again that he could succeed und er the most
dif ficult of circumstances—to prove that he couldn’ t fail. The basic idea of
the attraction, appropriate to UNICEF , was a lar ge boat that would float on
a ca nal through a universe of small animated dolls representing all the
countries of the world and demo nstrating the fundamental unity  of mankind
—a platitude given the archety pal Disney treatment. Originally W alt had
thought to have the dolls “sing” their national anthems, but the result was
cacophony . Inste ad he asked the Sherman brothers, who had w ritten songs
for vario us films  at the studio, to write a composition that could  be sung by
all t he children. Harriet Burns,  who worked on the exhibit, remembered
W alt telling the Shermans of fhandedly , “It’ s a small world after all,” which
became the title of their song and of the attraction.
W ith time so sh ort, W alt mobilized just as he had with Snow White  and
the war training films and Disneyland. He had Claude Coats  design the
route thr ough th e lands. He had  animator Marc Davis provide small comic
flourishes and Davis’ s wife, Alice, the costumes. He had Rolly Crump draft
a c olorful 120-foot mobile sculp ture to stand outside the pavilio n. When he
decided that the drawings of the  dolls lacked a certain charm, he had them
redesigned by Mary Blair , who had been a sketch artist at the studio in the
1940s, b efore moving east to d raw greeting cards and illustrate children’ s
books. Finally , he had a full-scale mock-up of the ride constructed at WED,
just as he had done with the Carousel of Progress. According to Crump,
“W e would put W alt on a boat that was on wheels and that was elevated to
the right sightline, and then push him through the ride” so that he could
experience exac tly what a visito r would experience and tinker with what he
felt need ed imp rovement. In the end, as with everything in which he was
personally invested, he was determined not only to meet the deadline but to
meet it spectacularly because,  as he now imagined, nothin g less than
perfection was suitable for W alt Disney .
III