# Página 24  
W ithin a few y ears the weather caught up to the Calls—pro bably the
legendary storm of January 1886. In all likelihood it was the following
autumn that they left for Florida by train with Elias and Keppl e Disney as
company . Keppl e returned to Ellis shortly thereafter . Elias stayed on with
the C alls. The area where they settled, in the middle of the state, was by one
account “howling wilderness” at the time. Even so, after their Kansas
experience the Calls found it “beautiful” and thought their ne w life there
would be “promising.” It was known generally as Pine Island for its piney
woods on the wet, high rolling land and for the rivers that isola ted it, but it
was dotted with new outposts. Elias settled in Acron, where there were only
seven fa milies; the Calls settled in adjoining Kismet. Charles cleared some
acreage to raise oranges and took up teaching again in neighboring
Norristown, while Flora became the teacher in Acron her fir st year and
Paisley her second. Meanwhile  Elias delivered mail from a horse-drawn
buckboard and courted Flora.
Their m arriage, at the Calls’ ho me in Kismet on New Y ear ’ s Day 1888,
wedded the intrepid determina tion of the Disneys with the softer , more
intellectual temper of the Calls—two strains of earthbound romanticism that
would mer ge in their youngest son. The couple even looked the part, Elias’ s
flinty gauntness contrasting with  Flora’ s amiable roundness, as his age—he
was nea rly thirty at the time of the wedding—contrasted with the nineteen-
year -old bride’ s youth. Marriage, however , didn’ t change his f ortunes. He
had bought an orange grove, but a freeze destroyed most of his crop,
forcing him back into delivering the mail. In the meantime Charles Call had
an accident while clearing som e land of pines, never fully recovered, and
died early in 1890. His death loosened the couple’ s bond to Florida. “Elias
was ver y much like his father; he couldn’ t be contented very long in any
one place,” Elias’ s cousin, Peter Cantelon, observed. The Disney
wanderlust and the need to esca pe would send Elias back north —this time
to a nine-room house in Chicago.