# Página 278  
seemed to dismiss him as nothing more than a glorified supervisor . “There’ s
just one  thing we’re selling here,” he told Ken Anderson, when the young
animator joined the studio, “and  that’ s the name ‘W alt Disney . ’ If you can
buy that and be happy to work for it, you’re my man. But if you’ve got any
ideas of  selling the name ‘Ken Anderson,’ it’ s best for you to  leave right
now .” It was ex pected for Disney employees to share credit. When Pinto
Colvig was introduced as the lyricist of “Who’ s Afraid of the Big Bad
W olf?” at a dinner honoring W alt, he immediately stood up and credited
others. “ W ell he knew ,” Colvig wrote a colleague, speaking of himself,
“that such a brea ch in the code of ‘Disney Ethics’ would foreve r be a nasty
stain upon his otherwise faultless character .”
If W alt n o longer drew the animations, it had also been a long while since
he had written the scenarios or  directed the cartoons or done any of the
tasks now assigned to his extensive staf f. In 1933, when Burt Gillett
defected after Pigs  t o the V an Beuren studio, W alt was so incensed that he
decided he was going to direct t he next cartoon himself, apparently to show
just how expendable Gillett was. The film was a Silly Symphony titled The
Golden T ouch  depicting the story of King Midas. “This was a very hush
hush operation with just two animators [Norm Fer guson a nd Freddie
Moore], who were sworn to secrecy ,” recalled Jack Kinney . W hen, a year
after its inceptio n, the cartoon was previewed at the Alexande r Theater in
Glendale, the reception was unenthusiastic. W alt had failed, and word of the
failure quickly spread through t he studio, becoming a needle w henever an
aggrieved emplo yee felt the nee d to deflate the boss. During one ar gument
with Jaxon where The Golden T ouch  was tossed in W alt’ s face, W alt
stormed of f, then returned, wa rning, “Never , never mention that picture
again.”
And yet  even though W alt could neither animate, nor write, nor direct, he
was the undisputed power at the studio, not only in the sense that he was the
boss but also in the more important sense that his sensibilit y governed
everything the studio produced. At first blush he was an unlikely dictator .
He w as young, t hough many of his employees now were even y ounger . He
was unp repossessing. “He look ed like just a nice, young American man,
good looking, but in a healthy rather than a handsome way ,” said one