# Página 645  
His amb ivalence was evident. As they plodded forward, W alt debated
whether to make it a full animation or a combination live action–animation.
He anno unced that actress-danc er Ginger Rogers would play the title role;
then a year later that Luana Pa tten, the young girl slated for Song of the
South,  w ould play her; and then neith er . He hired a Barnard profes sor to
find the right “voice” for Alice, which ignited a controversy in Britain over
whether the country’ s beloved character might wind up sounding American,
then signed a ten-year -old English actress named Kathryn Beaumont to
voice th e role in what was now to be a full animation. He had even
consulted a psychiatrist to take a new approach to the material a nd assigned
storymen T . Hee and Bill Cottre ll to have another crack at it, bu t they were
stymied too. Roy hated it, and W alt admitted that he would have bumped it
for Peter Pan  had  tha t film been ready , which it wasn’ t, but the studio had
too much invested in Alice  to shel ve it. Instead, everyon e soldiered on
slowly and unhappily and with p remonitions of disaster , despite  W alt’ s rosy
predictions at the time of Cinder ella ’ s release.
In t he end, the  premonitions proved all too accurate. W ard Kimball
thought the sequence directors  had started trying to outdo one another ,
which had a “self-cancelling ef fect on the final product.” Harry T ytle’ s
analysis was that Alice  had  “to o much sameness.” W al t had always felt that
it lacked  heart and would late r say , following Sharpsteen, that he got
“trapped into making ‘Alice in  W onderland’ against my better judgment”
and called it a “terrible disappointment.” “It’ s terribly tough  to transfer
whimsy to the s creen,” he said. T o another interviewer he admitted, “W e
just didn’ t feel a thing, but w e were forcing ourselves to do it.” The
animation suf fer ed because the staf f had been further depleted b y defections
to the new medium of television. And just five days before it s scheduled
release, in July 1951, a rival producer rushed a puppet version of the story
into the aters. W alt sought an i njunction, ar guing that the new film was
trying to  capital ize on his, but he lost. Even a promotional appearance by
W alt for Alice  on the radio turned sour when he suddenly went blank and
had to fumble his way through t he interview . The film received tepid praise
—“W atching thi s picture is something like nibbling those wafers that Alice
eats,” wrote Bosley Crowther in the New Y ork T imes —and in its first
release returned only $2 million on a $3 million investment.