# Página 652  
contract had expired in 1947 and they hadn’ t bothered to extend or
renegotiate it. Some advisers told Roy that the T reasury Department
wouldn’ t permit  W alt to sell his name to a company that he  ef fectively
controlled. Roy thought otherwise. Still, he said he was also a cting in the
company’ s best interest since the company used W alt Disney’ s name “in
ways tha t bring us a lot of reve nue,” and “I feel keenly that the company
should have this right beyond a ny doubt in place of going along as we are
now on the basis of indulgence on your part”—recognition that the name
W alt Disney was now just as valuable as the man. What W alt needed,
however , was a separate entity from the studio, one wholly owned by W alt
and his family , to whom W alt would grant the rights to his nam e and with
whom th e studi o could make a n agreement both for tax purp oses and to
give the contract legitimacy .
It to ok over a year , until December 1952, for W alt to fo rm what
eventually was called WED Ent erprises, after his initials, and a nother three
months for the board of directors of W alt Disney Productions  to agree to
license W alt Disney’ s name fo r forty years and to give W alt a personal
services contrac t—of seven, not ten, years as it was finally dra fted. WED,
in tu rn, received $3,000 a week  and 5 to 10 percent of what the company
collected from the use of W alt’ s name on anything outside of production.
W alt was also permitted to make one live-action film per year outside the
studio’ s auspice s and could purc hase up to a 25 percent ownership interest
in any live-action film if he were to contribute a like percentage to the
film’ s budget. In addition, W alt was granted an option to buy up to $50,000
of the $1.5 million life insurance policy that the company had taken out on
him and  was guaranteed a royalty of $50,000 annually for ten years. The
terms were favorable to W alt— so favorable that one angry stockholder
brought suit against the company that summer , and W alt personally
appeared in court to make his own case.
But if Roy had encouraged WED to protect W alt Disney’ s interests and to
maintain the company’ s claim o n his name and services, W alt himself had
something very dif ferent in mind for his new or ganization. WE D would be
the place where Disneyland could germinate and grow—an intimate place
that was  physically inside the stu dio but not really of the studio. He set it up