# Página 37  
coal stri ke in the summer of 191 0. Moreover , earlier that year he had fallen
ill with either typhoid or diphtheria, which left him weak and unable to
work. Flora was convinced that his illness was the result of worry and
insisted he sell the farm. By th e fall he had done so. That November—a
cold morning, as Roy remembe red it—Elias conducted an auction to sell
their stock and implements. Ro y and W alt tacked the signs up throughout
the a rea. Later t hat afternoon, in town, Roy and W alt saw a six-month-old
colt that they had tamed and broken, now hitched to the rig of  the farmer
who had  bought her . She whinnied in recognition at the sight o f them, and
they went to hug her and cried over their loss. Thus the idyll ended.  
The Dis neys mo ved into town to a small four -room house at 508 Kansas
A venue so that the children could finish the school term while Elias
recovered. But the Marceline in which they now lived was a much dif ferent
place from the one where they  had arrived five years earlier , confirming
what one Disney scholar wrote of W alt’ s attachment to the town: “Disney’ s
small-town America, the source of his golden memories, was in fact
beginning to vanish even as he experienced it.” The population had swelled
—nearly 50 percent since 1900 , according to the census—and that did not
account for striking miners who were gone at the time the census was taken.
No long er a town whose roads w ere unpaved, Marceline now boasted more
than twenty automobiles. It had a new school, a new power plant, and a new
waterworks as well as the six-hundred-seat New Cater Theater , which
showed films and featured vaud eville. The month before the D isneys left
for Kan sas City in the summer  of 191 1, “one of the lar gest c rowds ever
assembled in the City Park,” according to the Mar celine Mirr or ,  cheered the
lighting of Marceline’ s first streetlamps with power generated from her very
own electrical station.
This Marceline was not, howeve r , the Marceline that W alt Disn ey would
remember . His was a more rustic place that would become more rustic still
in his memory . He idealized Marceline. He later claimed that he felt sorry
“for people who live in cities all their lives and…they don’ t h ave a little