# Página 688  
W alt may have found this grat ifying, but it didn’ t necessarily translate
into profits, any more than Disneyland ’ s popularity had. As with
Disneyland,  th e studio woun d up spending more on the program, however
economically it was made and however many repeats it broad cast, than it
received from ABC—about $3 million the first season—which Roy chalked
up to his own ignorance of the daytime television market. Nevertheless, as
with Disneyland,  th e objective wa s neither quality nor profitability nor even
popularity . The Mickey Mouse Club  was another subsidy for the theme park,
not only  becaus e W alt, in the words of the program’ s newsreel  editor , had
personally issue d “damned serious and direct orders” for the show to
feature a t least one story on Di sneyland every week, but because ABC, in
order to land th e program, had agreed to furnish $2.4 million more to the
park. It was the park that W alt Disney cared about, the park that was his
dream now . T elevision was just a means to that end.
IV
The park. All the time that W alt had been working on the Disneyland
television show , all the time he had been negotiating, pre paring, and
approving, he had been thinking about the park. Everyone knew that he was
only tangentially involved with  the other projects, even as the studio was
overwhelmed. “This avalanche of work hit the studio,” sa id producer
W inston Hibler  when Disneyland  began. “W e augmented the staf f by
adding additional writers. W e used our nature photographers to start moving
out on projects. W e had to get ourselves in high gear , from a program that
included maybe three, four or five features a year to the prospec t of twenty-
six show s a year .” But W alt was barely part of the ramp-up. “ Those were
the d ays when h e didn’ t have an y contact with the picture,” W ard Kimball
said of W alt’ s la ck of participation in Man in Space.  He simply attended the
screening, laughed throughout, and then asked, “How in hell did you guys
think up  all that stuf f?” Milt Ka hl, who was working on feature  animations
at the time, had the same experi ence. He said that W alt would sit in on the
story m eetings but not as often  as he once had. “[T]he dif ference was,”
Kahl bel ieved, “ that on weekends and evenings and sitting on the john and