# Página 231  
fact that  life is s weet and work i s not everything.” So he took up sports, for
which h e had never had time even as a child—ice skating, swimming,
horseback riding, and boxing. He even joined the Hollywood Athletic Club
and wre stled there two or three times a week, though he admitted he didn’ t
like having to “get down there in somebody’ s crotch and sweaty old
sweatshirt.” For  a while he took up golf, rising at four each morning so he
could be on the course by five-thirty without intruding on s tudio time,
playing five holes, then eating a hearty breakfast and heading for the studio,
as he put it, “full of pep.” Lillian accompanied him in many of these
pursuits, swimming at the club, horseback riding in Grif fith Park, and even
rising to  join him for his early golf sessions, which were usually truncated.
“W alt w ould fly  into such a rage when he missed a stroke,” Lillian said,
“that I got hel plessly hysterical watching him.” W alt claim ed all this
activity relaxed him now , made him better able to focus and cope.
But despite his tributes to his n ew exercise regimen and his professions
that he had returned to the stud io a “new man,” he was still restless and
discontented. He  had been back at the studio only a few weeks when he and
Lillian left again, this time for a  trip to Kansas City , where W alt received an
award fr om DeMolay and addressed their convention, and on to  New Y ork
for the first tim e as a tourist rather than as a petitioner . “W a lt is feeling
much better than he was before his vacation,” Roy wrote Elias and Flora
shortly a fter W alt’ s return, “but is not back to his old self. Confidentially , I
am a little worried about W alt ’ s health, feeling there must be  something
basically wrong.” W alt was still tired and mopey . He continued visiting
doctors in hopes of discovering  what ailed him, and one found what he
thought was an intestinal paras ite that seemed to be sapping the patient’ s
strength. Roy was consoled by the fact that W alt was finally tending to
himself after years of tending only to the studio, where, Roy now thought,
things w ere going well enough t hat “it is much less of a nerve wracking job
for him than before.”
Roy was correct that some of the financial pressure had a bated. In
January 1932 he concluded a rev ised agreement with United Artists, adding
five new  Silly Symphonies to the contract at an advance of $1 5,000 each
and a 30 percent distribution fee. More important, Roy negotiated a loan of