# Página 760  
was requested to do so by dozens of others—to seize an area an d transform
it th e way he had transformed the Anaheim orange grove into Disneyland.
Jules Stein suggested that W alt  buy Ellis Island, the portal through which
immigrants had passed into the country . “I am so excited about this, W alter ,
I just can’ t sleep,” Stein wrote him. A developer in Monterey , California,
asked i f W alt would consider erecting a V acation V illage with an
amusement park  on an Early California theme. (W alt actually visited the
area one  weeken d.) Joyce Hall, the head of Hallmark greeting cards and a
fellow m ember of the People to  People board, asked W alt to participate in
the development of 1 10 acres in Kansas City , which would include a zoo,
aviary , b utterfly garden, and international village, and W alt met with Hall
and city  planner James Rouse before deciding to decline. Another group,
including the Seagram’ s liq uor company , was discuss ing W alt’ s
involvement in the development of Niagara Falls.
But alre ady W alt was thinking less of development than of something
much more ambitious, something more commensurate with his status,
something worth his time and ener gy , something so grand tha t it seemed
almost o utlandish: he wanted to design an entire city . At least as early as
1958 he was discussing with his  WED staf f what he variously called a City
of the Arts or th e Seven Arts Ci ty . As W alt envisioned it, the city would be
a s hopping and d ining area centered on the idea of the arts. It would include
a varie ty of art-themed shops—music, books, glassware, pottery ,
photography—as well as a theater , a TV broadcast hub, a hall of design
featuring the latest concepts,  an avenue of model home s, and an
international stre et. In the midd le would be a mall and fountain. But what
transformed it from another co mmercial project into an urban planning
project w as that  W alt was also trying to entice the Chouinard Art Institute,
with which his studio had been af filiated in the 1920s, to relocate from
downtown Los Angeles to his planned city , along with the Pasadena
Playhouse, the Los Angeles Conservatory , and the Buckley Schools. He
even vis ited the Lincoln Center arts complex, then under construction in
New Y ork, to investigate the r elationship between the performance halls
there and the Ju illiard School. And what transformed this urban planning
project into a real city was that just as he had once imagin ed building
housing on the studio lot for his employees, W alt intended to b uild, as one