# Página 646  
But aga in W alt wasn’ t in Burb ank to suf fer the disappointment. At the
time of Alice ’ s releas e he was in Europe with Lillian and the girls to
supervise the second of the British live-action pictures, The Adventur es of
Robin H ood and His Merrie Me n,  financed by the blocked monies of RKO
and Disney , though this visit, lik e the one for T r easur e Island,  s eemed to be
more an excuse for an extend ed vacation than a business trip. Before
leaving, W alt had screened films at the studio, looking at prospective actors
and directors and making what he himself called “merely suggestions,”
while he left the final decisions to Perce Pearce, who was producing. For
his part, Pearce had laid out eve ry shot in the movie in thumbnail sketches,
just as the studio had done with the animations, and sent them  on, along
with pho tostats and the final sc ript, to W alt for his approval, which W alt
freely ga ve, thou gh not without a veiled threat that Pearce had better make
the film as qu ickly as possible. “[T]his is important not only to the
or ganization but to you as the producer ,” he wrote. Meanwhile, as the film
was shot, W alt, Lillian, and the girls wandered through Europe,  visiting the
T ivoli Gardens in Denmark, and did not return to the studio until August.
When he did return, he plunged back into Disneylandia and his park. At
home, L illian recalled, he would come in after running the Lilly Belle  and
then regale the family with his plans. He had first talked of the  park being
located on the seven acres across from the studio, with the train traversing
the land separating the studio from nearby Grif fith Park, but his plans kept
growing lar ger until, Diane adm itted, “his conversation about  it at home
became so sweeping that I didn’ t take it seriously anymore.” W alt, however ,
was deadly serious. Late that summer or early in the fall he had Harper Gof f
draw overhead plans and sketches of the park, which now included a small
lake and  an island, and he talked about the park at every opport unity just as
he h ad talked in cessantly about Snow White  when he was conceptualizing it
in the mid-1930s. “[E]very time you had a meeting with W alt on something
else,” M ilt Kah l said, “why , th e Park would come up. Espec ially if you
were up in his  of fice, where he had all his drawings and stuf f.” One
executive at ABC television rem embered W alt coming to the of fice, even
before his European trip and ev en before he had any of Gof f ’ s sketches, to
discuss possible  projects but sai d that W alt could talk only about the park:
“W alt just carried on and on about it, and built a word pi cture.” The