# Página 55  
For all his child ren’ s professions of his thrift, Elias Disney did  not salt all
his m oney away . Instead, most likely under the supervision of  his brother
Robert, he kept investing and speculating in hopes that he could still make
his f ortune, even at his advanced  age. How he came to put mon ey in the O-
Zell Company is uncertain, tho ugh the firm, which was inco rporated in
Arizona and headquartered in C hicago, did have an of fice in Kansas City
and a warehouse  there housing e quipment. But regardless of how it came to
his atten tion, he began investing shortly after he arrived in Kansas City—
and investing heavily . Flora got one hundred shares of stock in April 1912,
and Elias bought two thousand more shares a few weeks later . In May 1915
he purchased 1,054 more shares and another 3,700 that September . The next
year he bought fifty shares out of W alt’ s savings and 275 more shares for
himself—all at a dollar a share.  By December 1916, with O-Ze ll’ s of ficers
complaining of “dif ficulties” in  the business, a freight embar go , and “lack
of capital,” Elias agreed to invest an additional $3,000 and move to Chicago
to work at the plant, with the stipulation that W alt would be put on the
payroll “a little later .”
When W alt arrived in Chicago at summer ’ s end, passing through
Marceline on the way , he enrolled as a freshman at W illiam McKinley High
School on Chicago’ s W est Side, not far from the Disneys’ house on Ogden
A venue. But McKinley , like Be nton, held little interest for hi m. Drawing
did, and he fell into it with the same alacrity as he had in Kansas City . He
had been at Mc Kinley scarcely  a month when the school magazine, The
McKinley V oice,  pronounced: “W alter Disney , one of the newcomers, has
displayed unusual artistic talent, and has become V oice  cartoonist.” The
magazine’ s circu lation manager said he was always having to w rite passes
so th at W alt cou ld be excused fr om class to draw . “[A]lready ,” t he manager
later wrote him, “it was THE P ASSION  of your life!” W alt seemed to sp end
most of his time  that school year drawing cartoons for The V oice,  many of
them with a po litical bent, commenting on the war: a parody of Mark
Antony’ s eulogy  for Julius Caesar was illustrated with a group of flashily
dressed bur ghers standing over the kaiser ’ s body; another cartoon attacked
slackers with two men, one in a  straw boater , the other in a derb y , quizzing
a wound ed doughboy with the caption, “Y our summer vacation. WORK  or
FIGHT .  W i ll you be doing either?” One classmate remembered him