# Página 732  
heart att ack during the production. He was replaced by Eric Larson, who
called th e assignment his “downfall.” Larson was eventually replaced by
Gerry Geronomi.
But for all the years of development, all the hard work, all the
innovations, all the money spent (roughly $6 million, easily making it the
most ex pensive animated featur e to that time), all the hopes th at had been
placed upon it, and all the predictions of success for it (“W ill be a bonanza
at the box of fice,” one responde nt crowed at a screening of the rough cut),
Sleeping Beauty  was a failure when it was finally released late in January
1959, both aesthetically and fin ancially . Earle’ s design had been visually
stunning, but the wary animators had been right: it lacked warmth and
charm. T hen there were the sto ry issues. Sharpsteen thought the problem
was tha t the film concentrated too heavily on the three fairies who abet
Sleeping Beauty . “[I]t got monotonous in the picture,” he said. Dick
Huemer said the problem was W alt’ s lack of involvement, bu t W alt had
been no more involved on most  of the recent features, and they had turned
out better . In tru th, the real problem may have been that the film sagged
under the weight of its own ambitions—the ambitions W alt had imposed
upon it. W alt seemed to know it . After screening the film short ly before its
completion, he char ged out of t he projection room, approached Milt Kahl
and Ma rc Davis on the steps of the Animation Building, and upbraided
them fo r , Kahl said, “how heavy the animation was and how rotten the
picture.” In the end Buena V ist a, Disney’ s distribution arm, lost $900,000
that year due lar gely to the film.
By this time the studio’ s aesthetic nemesis, UP A, which had been one of
the t ar gets of Sleeping Beauty ,  had begun to shatter . As early as April 1952
Columbia, which distributed UP A ’ s cartoons, had demanded that the
company secure loyalty oaths from its employees vowing that th ey were not
members of the Communist Party . Most agreed. But the wh ole idea of
taking oaths undermined the st udio and its camaraderie. Eventually John
Hubley , one of UP A ’ s most ima ginative animators, left. When its contract
with Columbia expired in 1953, UP A renewed, but the distributor insisted
that the studio make only Magoos. At the same time the co mpany was
being ha rassed by a union because, UP A animator Bill Melende z felt, W alt