# Página 355  
impending, the animators were so enthusiastic that they picked u p posters at
the studio and tacked them up all over Los Angeles.
The site of the  premiere was the Carthay Circle Theater , a  fifteen-
hundred-seat Mission Revival–style house on San V icente Boulevard near
the Han cock Pa rk section of L os Angeles, and the place whe re W alt had
first shown The Skeleton Dance  back in 1929. The Carthay was an ornate
palace where searchlights roamed the skies at openings, and the Snow White
premiere was a gala event, with grandstands packed with fans and dozens of
Hollywood luminaries in attendance—a testament both to the expectations
of the film and to W alt Disney’ s status, at only thirty-six, as an American
icon. In thinking  back on that evening, W alt would recall an incident that
had occu rred on  the back platform of the train when he first headed west to
Los Angeles. He was making conversation with a man there  who asked
what W alt did. When W alt said  he was in the motion picture business, the
man said  he knew people in the movies and inquired what end W alt was in.
“I make  animat ed cartoons,” W alt told him, which was met with a steely
disdain that W alt never for got a nd that led him to resolve that s omeday his
cartoons would be af forded the same respect as live features. Now one was.
“AM CONVIN CED ALL OUR FONDEST HOPES WILL BE
REALIZED T ONIGHT ,”  Chaplin wired W alt that day , but despite the
positive screenings, the encouraging feedback, and W alt’ s own brimming
confidence, he still felt an ine scapable anxiety , especially over how the
audience would react to the dwarfs at Snow White’ s bier—the  old anxiety
over whether people could and  would be moved by animated  characters.
W alt ent ered the  theater both euphoric and edgy . “W ell, it’ s been a lot of fun
making it,” W alt told interviewe r Buddy T wist to a national radio audience,
less than  hones tly . “And we’re very happy that it’ s being given this big
premiere here tonight and all these people are turning out to take a good
look at it. And I hope they’re not disappointed.” Asked if he was going to
be watch ing the  film himself, he quipped, “Y es, and have my wife hold my
hand.”
But the  nervousness that had slowly accreted from the years of
imagining, scrutinizing, retelling, fiddling, mobilizing, and p ushing, and