# Página 659  
the s ocial rules didn’ t apply there, that one was entirely free. W alt Disney ,
the purveyor of comfort, intende d his park to provide just the op posite—not
freedom but control and order . John Hench, one of its designers, said that
the p ark had been drawn with the same kind of circles and loop s as Mickey
Mouse a nd with the same ef fe ct. Everything was harmonious, soft, and
unthreatening, m aking Disneyland one of the most profound expressions of
what Marling calls an “architec ture of reassurance,” in which o ne feels the
palpable sense of “an order go verning the disposition of things.” When
critics w ould later carp that Disneyland was too serene, too  clean, too
controlled, too perfect, they we re right. It was what one might have called
the “tragedy of perfection”—that in seeking perfection W alt seemed to
drive ou t anythi ng human and r eal. Y et perfection was the who le basis for
Disneyland’ s ex istence and the foundation of its appeal. It was a modern
variant o n the City on a Hill of Puritan dreams. It was the consummate act
of wish fulfillment.
As such, of course, it was a reflection of its creator and his own
overweening sen se of wish fulfi llment. But it reflected him in a much more
personal way as well. By formulating the park with a walk down Main
Street at the park’ s entrance, which led to Sleeping Beauty Castle at the
street’ s end (what W alt, borrow ing an old carnival term, called a “wienie”
because it enticed guests to it presumably the way a wienie en tices a dog)
and then to the various lands that radiated from the castle (F antasyland,
Adventureland, Frontierland, and T omorrowland), W alt Disney recreated
his own life’ s j ourney: “the road map of W alt Disney’ s life,” as WED
veteran Marty Sklar would describe it. One entered the gates of the park
into what was essentially the Ma in Street of W alt’ s boyhood Ma rceline. (At
“story sessions”  for Disneyland he would reminisce about Marceline by the
hour .) At the end  of the street one was of fered a variety of options—fantasy ,
adventure, the frontier , the future—so that a trip through the park became a
metaphor for possibility . Like y oung W alt, visitors to the castle seemed to
stand at the port al to their dream s with a child’ s sense of omnipotence. “The
symbolism,” Richard Schickel would write, “is almost too perfect—the
strangers forced to recapitulate Disney’ s formative experiences before being
allowed to visit his fancies and fantasies in other areas of the Magic
Kingdom.”