# Página 436  
But it wasn’ t just a matter of size. Where Hyperion had been attractive
but rams hackle, Burbank was clean and ef ficient, just as the new production
process was intended to be. The Animation Building had three  floors and
eight long wings jutting from a corridor to form two side-by-sid e H-shapes.
The idea was th at production would flow smoothly downwa rd from the
third floor , where W alt had his of fice in wing H next to the story department
and where the films were initiated; to the second floor , where the directors
and layo ut men divided the fe ature stories into sequences, devised the
staging of the scenes, and eventu ally screened the roughs in the  sweatboxes
located t here; to  the first floor , where some two to three hundred animators
were separated into groups under head animators in each wing to do the
actual drawings; to the basement, where the test camera was housed and the
roughs were shot. Each wing c ontained a unit—three devoted  to features
and one to shorts.
Amid the purported new ef ficien cy W alt had not stinted on the a menities.
There was not only an elab orate commissary , where Roy  and W alt
democratically t ook their own meals, but also a snack bar on th e first floor
of th e Animation Building and a buf fet in the penthouse. Anyone who
wanted a  sandwich or a milk shake could simply order one, and it would be
delivered by a tr af fic boy to the of fice. There was a barbershop  for anyone
needing a haircut. W alt also provided a gymnasium on the top floor , where
a Sw edish exercise trainer named Carl Johnson led workouts and a roof
deck wh ere animators could and did sunbathe nude. Every noon in the
studio’ s theater  there would be a thirty-minute show of animations,
newsreels, and scenes from other features. In fact, though the studio had
been modeled after a college campus and was still frequently described as
one, it had so m any frills that W alt himself compared it now t o a “swank
hotel.” The only thing missing , he felt, was housing on the lot for the
employees so that they would n ever have to leave the studio, and he was
contemplating h ow to do it. That was the last element of his old
communitarian dream.
Some felt that W alt had trans planted the feeling of camaraderie and
fellowship from Hyperion. “The whole atmosphere is conducive to the
light-heartedness and gayety th at you find in Disney’ s pictures,” gossip