# Página 492  
which w as what Lessing had accused the NLRB of doing. Sorrell, who
happened to know A. P . Giannini from the time Sorrell had lived in
Oakland, phoned him and was referred to Doc Giannini, A.P .’ s brother .
White th en arranged to meet with Doc Giannini. “Sorrell wouldn ’ t strike for
anything that he couldn’ t win a t arbitration,” Giannini said, and suggested
that it would soo n be resolved. W hen White asked if Disney , after weeks of
obstinacy , would agree, Giannin i answered, “I guarantee he’ll arbitrate or
he won’ t have any studio.” The strikers returned to work as the arbitration
began, and a tentative settlement was reached on July 30. The strike was
over .
Or so it seemed. The sides had agreed to wage increases—10 percent for
artists earning less than $50 a w eek—one hundred hours of back pay for the
strikers, reinsta tement of the fired workers, including Babbitt, and of
course, recognit ion of the SCG  as the bar gaining agent for most of the
studio’ s employees. Future layof fs were to be decided by a joint committee
to be agreed up on, but Babbitt was expressly excluded from termination.
Some w orkers w ere stunned. “I went from $32.50 a week to $65  a week for
the same job,” recalled camer a operator Bob Broughton. “My pay just
doubled overnight.” W alt, however , was not happy . W riting columnist
W estbrook Pegler , who had asked for W alt’ s version of events, he called the
strike a “catastrophe” that had destroyed the spirit of the stud io. W ithout
mentioning the Bank of Americ a, he groused that he had had to settle, but
insisted, “I’m not licked…. I’m incensed.” His eyes were now open to
“what is happening to our government today ,” presumably Communist
infiltration. And  with so many workers now and so little work, he said he
might have to close the studio for a time to survive.
But W alt wouldn’ t be there for the pain of layof fs. Instead, he left.
III
While th e thorniest issues of the  settlement were being hammered out—the
inevitable layof fs—W alt headed for South America. He calle d the trip a
“godsend,” even though he admitted, “I am not so hot for it but it gives me