# Página 568  
—plunging the white family int o poverty so that it would be clear the film
was set during R econstruction and Uncle Remus and the other blacks were
not slave s scrap ing and bowing to white power , though in the final film the
whites w ere so well-dressed and  genteel that one couldn’ t help but think of
them as masters on a plantation.
In addit ion to hiring the radical Rapf—at a time when W alt was still
steaming over what he had perceived to be Communist influence during the
strike—W alt did  something else that was uncharacteristic: he sent out the
script fo r comm ent both within the studio (Gunther Lessing wrote W alt, “I
can’ t find a dam n thing to critici ze or suggest,” and fondly recalled his own
black nanny) and outside the studio, to producers Sol Lesser and W alter
W anger , financier Jonathan Bel l Lovelace, who sat on the Disney board,
and W ar d Green e, the head of  King Features Syndicate. Most of all, he
solicited comment from black Americans, among them the actress Hattie
McDaniel, who had won an Academy A ward for her suppor ting role in
Gone w ith the W ind  a nd who praise d the script after taking a role in the
film. H e even invited W alter White, the secretary of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, to come to the studio
and per sonally work with W alt on revisions, though White begged of f,
saying that the NAACP had n o W est Coast representative and that he
wouldn’ t be coming out to California until November , and then as a war
correspondent.
Meanwhile Joseph Breen, who was char ged with approving scripts under
the Production Code of the M otion Picture Producers and Distributors
Association, had  sent the Remus script to a Mississippi-born c olleague for
comment, and W alter W anger had passed it along to Dr . Ala in Locke, a
prominent black scholar and philosopher at Howard University , asking that
he write Disney directly with his criticisms. Breen’ s colleague suggested a
few changes—eliminating the word “darkey”—but he also warned that
scenes of blacks singing happily  could be resented by contempo rary blacks.
Dr . Locke wrote W alt that the  film could do “wonders in transforming
public o pinion a bout the Negro” but only if he shunned stereotypes, and he
advised that W alt consult other  black representatives. But to W anger , Dr .
Locke confided  that W alt had shown “bad judgment” in not having