# Página 678  
If the studio’ s selection of Crockett first was a matter of luck, its
selection of who would play C rockett was even more serendipitous. W alt
had scre ened the horror film Them!  t o see whether the film’ s star ,  James
Arness, might be a suitable Croc kett, but he was struck by another player in
the pictu re nam ed Fess Parker , a tall, rangy actor with a drawl who then
auditioned for W alt and won the part by strumming a song on  his guitar .
Parker had given himself thirty-six months after graduatin g from the
University of T exas to make a li ving as an actor . The deadline was the very
month he began shooting Cr ockett.
And there was more dumb luck still. When Bill W alsh returned from
T ennessee, whe re the show had been shot—W alt had actually visited the
location with Lillian that Septem ber—and then had it edited, he  discovered
that they had not shot enough footage for three full sixty-minute programs,
which w as the original plan. W alt suggested that W alsh think of using the
storyboards themselves as a kind of introduction at the top of e ach show to
fill out the hours, but when W a lt reviewed the drawings, he t hought they
looked dull and of fered another suggestion: that they find a song to
accompany them. W alsh enliste d the studio composer , Geor ge Bruns, and
the s cenarist, T om Blackburn, w ho together quickly wrote a ballad for the
beginning of the program.
Then so mething happened that no one at the time could quite explain:
Davy Cr ockett  bec ame an over night national sensation. W ithin a few weeks
of the feature’ s debut on Disneyland  o n December 5 , 1954, “The Ba llad of
Davy Crockett, ” with its opening lyric, “Born on a mou ntaintop in
T ennessee/ Gree nest state in th e land of the free,” had become as deeply
entrenched in American popula r culture as “Who’ s Afraid of the Big Bad
W olf?” o r “Der Fuehrer ’ s Face”  had been in their day . (Bill W alsh, in fact,
attributed the show’ s success to  the song.) Children not only sang the song
and bou ght the record—seven million copies in the first six months—they
also bou ght Crockett T -shirts, Crockett toy rifles, Crockett knives, Crockett
books, Crockett jackets, Crocke tt bandannas, and dozens of other Crockett
paraphernalia in  a buying mania that had been rivaled o nly by the
consumption of Mickey Mouse  merchandise in the 1930s. Above all, ten
million Crocket t coonskin caps were sold, becoming part of t he essential