# Página 478  
But Herbert Sorrell was not a man to be easily deterred. He wa s coarse-
looking, compact, with round sloping shoulders, a high forehead and square
chin, and a nose flattened perhaps by too many punches from his days as a
prizefighter . He was also, at forty-four , every bit as tough as he looked. The
son of a peripate tic drunkard, Sorrell went to work at the age of  twelve in a
sewer pi pe plant  in Oakland, wh ere he was beaten mercilessly b y his fellow
workers until he whacked one with a shovel and sent him to the hospital. He
later sold pipe, worked as a riveter , was drafted into the service during
W orld W ar I, a nd returned to become a professional prizefighter , then
moved to Los Angeles to work  as a painter at the studios. The seminal
moment in his life, he said, was when a supervisor at Universa l asked him
whether he was a union member and, when he answered that he was,
summarily fired him. That radicalized him. It was during a strike at
Paramount in 1937, however , that Sorrell became a power to be reckoned
with. He  called sixteen “scab” la borers, said they were needed immediately
at the studio, and of fered to pick them up. “W e came and got them,” he later
reminisced drily , “and Monday  there were sixteen broken right arms.” In
forming the Conference of Studio Unions (CSU), a bloc of ten motion
picture unions, and assuming its presidency , Sorrell became the most
powerful or ganizer in Hollywoo d—one to be taken seriously . Now , as W alt
later told  it, Sorrell threatened t o turn the Disney studio into a “dust bowl”
if the Disneys didn’ t recognize the SCG.
Bracing for a sh owdown between these two lar ger -than-life fig ures, the
studio was tense. W alt knew that he had to seize the initiative and act
quickly , and he did what he had always done when faced with crisis: he
appealed to the missionary zeal of his employees and their belief that they
were no t merely  industrial workers toiling for a wage but were engaged in a
great en terprise. In two shifts, at five o’clock on February 10, 1941, and
then again the next day , W alt addressed his staf f in the stu dio theater .
Announcing that he had been advised to read his speech and have it
recorded, lest there be any legal consequences for what he said, he began
soberly by saying that the studi o was in a financial crisis, a c risis that he
admitted was partly of his own making. He had simply had too  much faith
in a nimation. “I have had a stubborn, blind confidence in the cartoon
medium,” he told them, “a de termination to show the skeptics that the