# Página 340  
panned across them, animation gained for the first time a se nse of real
perspective and a three-dimensionality so astonishing that Thomas and
Johnston said of the basically plotless The Old Mill  that it demonstrated that
“an audience could be swept up by sheer subtlety and bec ome deeply
involved in an animated film.” Eric Larson gushed over the cartoon—the
way the multiplane combined w ith the ef fects “to give you the b eauty of the
wind,” or the way the raindrops  “had not the hard outline feeling to them,
but the real feeling of the rain ,” or the way the clouds were “soft and
moving and…in their density went from real heavy clouds to light clouds to
blue sky in such a subtle way .” One observer fretted that the multiplane
might prove too powerful, too much an end in itself. “Even in the eyes of
the S tudio,” he w rote, “it is cons idered an instrument so loaded with artistic
dynamite that, if not properly handled, it may blast the animated sound
picture completely of f its course.”
But that was not W alt Disney’ s concern. For him, the multip lane was
blasting Snow White  further along it s course, beyond animation to where it
could ch allenge and even surpass live-action films. For him, the multiplane
brought Snow White  closer to realism  and closer to his own fully realized
world.
VI
It ha d be come a n incessant refrain: time was  runnin g out.  In the late winter
of 1936 W alt and Roy had closed a new distribution deal with RKO, a much
lar ger operation than United Artists and one with more clout in the
marketplace, which was what the Disneys needed. “[T]he big studios that
have their own cartoons practi cally give away their cartoons with their
feature pictures, ” Roy wrote his parents shortly after signing with RKO.
“W e, all  of the time, have to stand on our own feet without any tie-in with
any other product.” W alt had been dissatisfied with UA for some time,
complaining that the distributor was taking too big a share of the foreign
receipts and insisting that while “competitive cartoons are falling by the
wayside fast,” Disney cartoons were “steadily increasing in audience
value.” W hen R oy importuned W alt to give UA a chance, W alt wrote back