# Página 110  
The very  next day W inkler sent the contracts, incorporating her  financial
terms and calling for the deliver y of the first Alice no later than  January 2,
1924. She also i ncluded an option for two series of twelve more films each
in 1925 and 1926 and a clause that awarded her full rights to all of the films
W alt pro duced during the contract term. That same day , obviously wanting
to m ove quickly , she asked W alt for any photographs of the act ress playing
Alice an d of W alt, and for biogr aphies of each. Most likely in an attempt to
impress him, she telegraphed W alt again the same day sugges ting that he
write Harry W arner , who would attest to her competence. W alt  did contact
W arner , who wrote back that W inkler “has done very well” and that “she is
responsible for anything she may undertake,” but by that time W alt, as
anxious to proceed as W inkler , had signed the contract, with Uncle Robert
serving as his witness. Returning the documents, he wrote W in kler that the
first film, Alice’ s Day at the Sea,  was already in production and would be
delivered as early as Decembe r 15. She responded a week later , a bit
extravagantly: “ I see no reason  why these should not be the b iggest thing
brought out for years.”
But despite the months he had waited for just this news and d espite his
promise to deliver a new film quickly , W alt was ill prepared to launch
another animatio n studio. The day he received W inkler ’ s initial telegram on
October 15, he headed to the V eterans Hospital, where Roy was
convalescing from his tuberculosis. As he later told it, again dramatizing for
ef fect, h e arrived late, around midnight, crept onto the screened porch
where th e patients slept, and sh ook Roy awake to show him the of fer and
celebrate. But his enthusiasm qu ickly elided to panic. “What do  I do now?”
he asked Roy , a nd pleaded with him to leave the hospital and help him get
started. Roy agreed to meet W alt the next morning at Uncle Ro bert’ s house
for a  strategy session. Roy left the hospital the following day— he claimed
that an examination had shown that he was healed—and never returned.
Meanwhile W alt had a pressing issue to resolve. W inkler ’ s contract had
been predicated on having V ir ginia Davis play Alice, but V ir gin ia was back
in K ansas City . The day he received the contract from W inkler , the day he
was meeting with Roy at Un cle Robert’ s, he wrote V ir ginia’ s mother
ur gently telling her that he had f inally gotten a distributor , that he had been