# Página 505  
on th is continent” and the “divin e event towards which your wh ole creation
has mov ed.” T o which W alt resp onded: “It was just one of those little things
that we knocked out between epics!”
W alt wa sn’ t bein g entirely self-ef facing. It was  a lit tle t hing they knocked
out, and though it once again  traced the Disney theme of embracing
maturity and responsibility and taking control of one’ s own dest iny , even at
the r isk of being  exiled from one ’ s safe and satisfying childhood oasis, W alt
didn’ t really have very much to do with it. When T ime  ran a piece giving
the main credit to his staf f, W alt grumbled to Dick Huemer and  Joe Grant,
who had written the film, that the article made it seem t hat he was
irrelevant. The T ime  article had been originally scheduled to run as a cover
story on December 8, 1941, but it got bumped by another more newsworthy
event, and a T ime  editor apologize d to W alt that he had tried to reschedule it
for the Christmas cover but was overruled by coeditors who  feared that
readers would think the magazi ne was trying to be “facetious”  in light of
what the country now faced.
What th e countr y faced—what had bumped Dumbo  f rom th e cover— was
its entra nce into W orld W ar II, triggered by the Japanese bombardment of
the A merican naval base at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii on December 7. Since it
was a Sunday , W alt heard the news of the attack on the radio and then
received a call from the studio manager , who had been advised by the
police th at five hundred army troops were already moving onto the Burbank
lot and bivouack ing on the sou ndstage, where their job was to  provide an
antiaircraft insta llation to protect the nearby Lockheed factory , which made
airplanes for the armed forces. In short order army trucks pulled onto the
lot, camouflage was draped across buildings, parking garages and storage
sheds were converted into ammunition depots, and a mess kitchen was
established. Essentially the army had commandeered the studio.
The day  of the attack Kay Kam en, the head of the company’ s product
division, was in W ashington, D.C., seeking potential clients for commercial
and industrial films and soundin g out agencies about the possibility of the
studio d oing films for the gove rnment—the government that W alt had so
recently characte rized as Communistic. Though Kamen mourned the loss of