# Página 240  
definitely feel that we cannot do  the fantastic things based on the real unless
we first know th e real,” W alt had  advised. They needed training. As early as
1929 W alt would drive several of his animators to downtown Los Angeles
to attend Friday night classes at  the Chouinard Art Institute, then go to the
studio to  work, and then retur n to pick them up. Sometime in 1931 he
contracted with Chouinard to train a dozen or so of his artists one night a
week. O ne of them, Art Babbitt , decided that it would be more ef ficient for
the artis ts to gather at his hou se near the Hollywood Bowl f or informal
drawing session s with live models, and in the late summer or early fall of
1932 he began h osting these get-togethers. The first week he invited eight
artists, and fourteen arrived. The next week he invited the fourteen, and
twenty-two appeared. Several w eeks later W alt called Babbitt to his of fice.
“Suppose it got in the newspapers that a bunch of Disney artists were
drawing naked women in a private home,” he said. “It wouldn’ t sit very
well.” Instead, obviously hoping to attract even more of the staf f, he of fered
them the studio soundstage and free materials. After W alt’ s proposal
another young animator who had been attending the sessions at Babbitt’ s
house, Hardie Gramatky , suggested they formalize the instruction by
inviting the man who had c onducted the Chouinard classes, Donald
Graham, to serve as the teac her . Babbitt contacted Graham, and on
November 15 the “great Disney Art School,” as Graham called it, held its
first class.
At first the group met on the so undstage just two evenings a week, with
twenty to thirty men in atten dance. W ithin a month the numbers had
swelled, compel ling Graham to call in another instructor , Phil Dike, and
divide the class in two. Over the next two years weekly attendance averaged
better th an fifty per session, and Graham occasionally had to enlist a third
instructor to accommodate the g roup. Soon they were meeting f ive nights a
week, and though attendance in itially was not mandatory , as Babbitt put it,
“you’d better go!”
Canadian-born and trained at Stanford as an engineer before taking
instruction himself at Chouinar d and committing to art, Graham was only
twenty-nine whe n he took the helm—a handsome, compact man with dark
wavy hair , a square jaw , deepset eyes, ropy arms, and the long fingers of an