# Página 476  
IA TSE h ad been  rebuf fed, forestalling any interest in a union. But with the
certification the leaders of the f ederation were inspired to draw up a list of
contract demand s. Roy was astonished, saying he had “no use for any
unions” and wouldn’ t negotiate.  It indicated how thoroughly W alt had won
their allegiance,  despite their grievances, that the board decided to disband
the federation rather than fight.
But in October 1940, after Sorr ell had negotiated his truce with MGM,
Dave Hi lberman, the animation assistant who had originally warned Babbitt
about IA TSE, decided to begin or ganizing the Disney studio o n behalf of
Sorrell’ s Screen  Cartoonists Guild (SCG). On December 5 the SCG
informed the company that it  had collected cards from a majority of
Disney’ s employees and would  ask for recognition. W alt was frantic. The
very nex t morn ing he called B abbitt to a meeting in his of fice, showed
Babbitt a letter f rom the SCG’ s attorney announcing its claim, and ordered
Babbitt to reconvene the federation so “we can stop this thing.” When
Babbitt declined , saying he would be ridiculed after the co mpany had
refused to bar gain with him, W alt cracked, “W ell, where would I be if I
couldn’ t stand a little ridicule?”  W alt insisted he would never bar gain with
unions. “Y ou know how I am, b oys,” he told them, “if I can’ t ha ve my own
way…if somebo dy tries to tell me to do something, I will do just the
opposite, and if necessary I will close down this studio.” W alt’ s idea was to
sign a closed-shop agreement with the federation to freeze out any other
union. The next day the studi o sent out application slips to employees
through the department supervisors.
Most of those who reflected on the union fracas would lay the federation
plan at the feet of Gunther Lessing, the Disneys’ legal counsel. As a young
attorney in El Paso, T exas, Le ssing had gotten entangled in defending a
number of Mexican revolutiona ries and had ridden into Mexic o City with
Francisco Made ro when Madero took over the government. Aft er Madero’ s
assassination, Lessing would go on to represent the bandit-revolutionary
Pancho V illa. Lessing called him self an “idealist.” By the time he joined the
Disneys in the early 1930s, however , his idealism had give n way to a
truculent conser vatism that made him a pariah among most of the studio’ s