# Página 254  
will not ignore the interesting a nd significant fact that the mov ies literally
laughed the big bad wolf of dep ression out of the public mind through the
protagonism of Thr ee Little Pigs. ” Whatever the cartoon’ s impact on
sagging morale, “Who’ s Afraid of the Big Bad W olf?” indisputably became
the nation’ s new anthem, its cheerful whoop hurled in the face of hard
times.  
Among the many ef fects on the Disneys of the success of Thr ee Little Pigs
was the further expansion of the studio, the staf f of which by late 1933
numbered nearly two hundred. W alt said, not disapprovingly , that Hyperion
was com ing to resemble a “Ford factory ,” with the dif ferenc e that “our
moving parts were more complex than cogs—human beings, each with his
own tem perament and values who must be weighted and fit ted into his
proper place.” W alt had always been as concerned with the process of
making cartoon s as with the cartoons themselves, and in com paring his
studio to  a factory production line, he was acknowledging the new pressure
on him to streamline that process. For one thing, he was cons tantly being
nagged by Roy , and now by Geor ge Morris as well, to fin d a way to
economize so that the studio could turn a profit. For another , he  was always
seeking ways to optimize the talents of his staf f, in the service not just of
productivity but of quality . It was precisely because he did n’ t want to
sacrifice his status as the best c artoon maker that he was driv en to find a
better way to make cartoons, ef fectively trying to mass-produce excellence.
Thus began another revolution. J ust as he had been reinventing animation
and atte mpting to perfect it t hrough new techniques, W alt now began
reinventing and attempting to perfect the system under which animations
were pro duced. This put him in the unusual position of trying to reenchant a
modern world that had been disenchanted partly through excessive
rationalism by devising a syste m of production that would its elf be more
rational. Even if W alt had want ed it to, the studio clearly could no longer
operate as a ki nd of giant fra ternity where roles were ill d efined and
everyone pitched in on everything. Already before Pigs  W alt had instituted