# Página 655  
also working on the Dancing Man miniature, assembling a coach for the
park, and drawing elevations for the submarine in 20,000 Leagues Under
the Sea.
W alt himself was also spinning in a whirlwind. Despite the distractions of
the featu res, he was personally negotiating with a specialist in miniature
horsedrawn carriages about the  possibility of the man selling his work to
Disneyland for a separate mini ature section; he was consulting with the
operators of other attractions (o ne advised him to char ge a high admission
price to the park and a parking fee “to keep out the loafers and undesirable
characters”); an d he was visiting other amusement venues, like Knott’ s
Berry Farm south of Los Ang eles, with Dick Irvine. These were hardly
casual trips. “[W]e’d measure the width of the walkways, the traf fic flow ,
and stud y how people moved about,” Irvine recalled. “Even a t that time,
W alt had in the back of his mind how he wanted to move people.”
W alt w as expansive again, and after the years of working under
restrictions, he wanted his crew to exercise their imaginations too, though
when it came to  the rest of the studio, WED operated in relative secrecy .
“W alt said, ‘Heavens! The dream ’ s wide open. There’ s nothing cut or dried
about it.’” “W e would write our  ideas out on squares of paper ,” Dick Irvine
recalled, comparing the planning of the park to the planning of the features,
“put the m up on a board, and he’d come down in the afternoon and sit there
and look at the m and juggle them around.” These sessions  would last
anywhere from four hours to six hours to the entire day . And though Lillian
said that  he would come home e xhausted after the long days of planning, he
had a drawing board at Carolwood where he could work on D isneyland at
night too—“as a hobby ,” he said.
As in the old days, when he had been constantly “pluss ing” the
animations, he was never satisfi ed. “The first scheme you had, W alt would
completely tear apart,” Marvin D avis said. “Eventually you would come up
with som ething better . He wanted to see every idea that you co uld possibly
have before he settled on something.” Davis remembered a tim e when he
had draw n a layout for an attrac tion and W alt had come in at n ight, just as
he u sed to do with his animators, and taken it home with him. When Davis