# Página 556  
of fice, and some films were subjected to as many as twen ty separate
evaluations. W alt, whose taste had once been the only gauge that mattered
at the studio, inv ariably bowed to the audience. Indeed, as far as the shorts
were con cerned, he had decided that the ARI would be the sole determinant
of quality .  
While h e waited on the features, hoping to advance them, he co mpromised
once again. During the war , wh en W alt had despaired of making another
feature, he had begun planning a  series of musical shorts—mainly remnants
from the proposed Fantasia  sequel—that he was hoping to package in a
forty-minute featurette, just to keep his animators limber and just to keep
his own  hand in real animation. “I had a strong conviction,” W alt would
say , “that we needed to change our direction. The cartoon field was flexible
enough. It forced me to make e ither a cartoon short seven or eight minutes
long or a feature cartoon sevent y to eighty minutes long. And I had a lot of
ideas I thought would be good  if I could fit them in between  those two
extremes.” But this was another of W alt’ s rationalizations. The truth was
that the shorts weren’ t profitabl e, and he couldn’ t make a feature. The best
he c ould do was  sew together th ese remainders, now ten of the m, swelling
the film to feature length. The se gments included “Blue Bayou,” which was
a rewor king of the animation for “Clair de Lune” that he ha d cut from
Fantasia ; “Peter and the W olf,” which Ser gei Prokofiev had composed for
Disney years earlier; “All the Cats Join In,” with jazz clarinetist Benny
Goodman, which W alt had had in preparation since 1940; “C asey at the
Bat,” na rrated by comedian Jerry Colonna; and “The Whale Wh o W anted to
Sing at the Met” featuring the voice of opera star Nelson Edd y . The total
cost was  set at a modest $395,0 00, though even then one exec utive wrote
W alt that he should meet with the creative team to set the direction “in order
to complete the P ACKAGE  as economically as possible.”
W alt didn’ t fool himself about the quality of the film, which at Perce
Pearce’ s suggestion had been retitled Make Mine Music  a fter being called
Swing Str eet.  The  characters were far more s tylized than the typical Disney