# Página 123  
with W a lt Disne y once his imag e became familiar to the publi c. But there
was another change in W alt’ s  life that spring that would be just as
permanent and far more significant to him. W alt Disney had fallen in love.
II
He had heretofo re shown surprisingly little interest in women. Though his
mother had thought of him as a high school lothario and though  he could be
sensitive and even tender—he routinely closed letters from France to his
McKinley classmate and Bea Conover ’ s friend, V ir ginia Baker , with
“love”—he did not chase women or have especially close relationships with
them. He seemed to prefer to pal around with the guys. “[H]e was a little
dif ferent,” W alt Pfeif fer remembered. “I mean he didn’ t have an eye for the
girls then. And even when he enlisted and went over to France after the
war…when he came back he di dn’ t think too much of girls. In fact, I don’ t
think that he ever had one that I know of.” “I was normal,” W alt explained
years later , “but girls bored me.” They didn’ t share his interests, he said.
Part of this fee ling may have been disillusionment after Bea Conover
jilted him . Part of it may have be en a youthful desire to avoid complications
and anyt hing that he could not control. In Kansas City , even as a  young man
on his own, he concentrated on animation and on Laugh-O-Gram rather
than on romance, though he occ asionally dated Dorothy W endt , the young
sister -in-law of his patron Dr . Cowles, taking her to the Alamo Theatre or
the d ance pavilion at the Electric Park, and he continued to write her after
he le ft f or Califo rnia. And there was another girl named Peterson whom he
saw infrequentl y and with whom he also maintained a correspondence.
Still, he viewed marriage as a trap and said he had resol ved—while
watching his coworkers glumly clock in at the Film Ad Co., cha ined to their
jobs—that he would not get married until he was at least twent y-five years
old and had saved $10,000.
Nor was it only W alt who seemed to disdain romance. Roy , now thirty-
one yea rs old, had put his nu ptials to Edna Francis on hold while he
convalesced fro m his tuberculosis and saved money , but the delay had