# Página 472  
moving,” W alt wrote Roy . “He’ s been crying to me ever since he’ s been
here.” O ne storyman was even fired when, during a conference, he
announced that it was noon and they should break for lunch.
Despite his distance and icy dis missiveness, many of the employees still
revered W alt, who, though on ly thirty-nine in 1941, was n evertheless
significantly older than his animators, whose average age was now twenty-
seven, and who was one of America’ s most famous cultural icons. But after
years of slavishly obeying h is commands and after years of gladly
subscribing to his cult, some had begun to resent him too, and director Jack
Kinney observe d a growing division in the staf f between those who
continued to worship him and those who didn’ t.
Many of the apostates had begun to question what they saw as W alt’ s
paternalism, wh ich they thought was expressed by his habitually calling his
staf f “my boys” whenever he spoke of them. Some saw paternalism too in
W alt’ s bonuses, which disgruntled animators viewed as arbitrarily
dispensed. They felt they were being manipulated, not only by the bonuses
but a lso by W alt ’ s general approach to them. (W alt proudly admitted that he
had read  a psychology book and tried applying its precepts to h is relations
with his staf f.) Others had begun to chafe at the fact that for all the talk of
collaboration, W alt was an autocrat whose word was the only word.
“Usually each of us felt, ‘Why didn’ t I think of that?’” Frank Thomas and
Ollie Joh nston wrote of the respect for W alt’ s ideas while acknowledging a
new rebelliousness, “but every so often we secretly would feel, ‘My way is
better!’” They all knew that W alt entertained only those ideas that
comported with his own. “God help you if you took his idea and ran it in
the wron g direc tion,” a writer at the studio commented. “If you did, one
eyebrow would rise and the other would descend, and he’d say , ‘Y ou don’ t
seem to get it at all.’” When B ill Cottrell suggested a scene in Pinocchio
and W al t vetoed it, Cottrell prot ested, “But if we don’ t try it my  way , we’ll
never kn ow whe ther or not it would have worked.” T o which W alt replied,
“No, we won’ t.” W ard Kimball noted, “Y ou learned early on never to ar gue
with him or to  cross him.” Indeed, during sweatbox sessions everyone
would s it silently and nervously while W alt watched, pondered, and issued
his verdict. Only then would the others express their opinio ns—always