# Página 1200  
Another individual who deserve s special praise is Roy E. Disney , Roy O.
Disney’ s son and W alt Disney ’ s nephew . I was told that Roy E. was
instrumental in facilitating stud io cooperation for this book. At the same
time, he never attempted to influence what I was writing.
Having been loosed in the Disney Archives, where I would spend
thousands upon thousands of ho urs working my way through W alt Disney’ s
correspondence and reading tens of thousands of other documents as well as
watching Disney  films and liste ning to Disney recordings, I was aided and
abetted b y three other extraordinary individuals whom I am now privileged
to call friends. Dave Smith founded the archives in 1971 and has headed
them ever since. In the Disney community Dave is a legend— the primary
fount of Disney information. H e was never less than generou s in sharing
that info rmation with me, in ans wering all questions, lar ge and s mall, and in
ferreting out any material that I requested and even some that I didn’ t know
enough about to request. The a rchives manager , Robert T ieman, is also a
published Disney authority . Robert, a self-professed curmudgeon, once took
umbrage at an a rticle that described him as cheery , so he will no doubt be
of fended when I say how much I appreciated his willingness to answer the
numerous questi ons with which I pelted him daily , his forays t o the annex
to fi nd m aterial that was not rea dily available, and—dare I say it—the dry
good hu mor wit h which he tole rated me even after years of my pestering
him for Disney arcana. Robert’ s  drollery leavened those long ten-hour days
in the archives. Last but by no means least is Rebecca Cline, t he assistant
archivist. Rebecca not only answered questions, fetched material, Xeroxed
documents, assisted my photo research, and took me on a tour of the studio,
including W alt’ s of fice, she also patiently listened whenever I discovered
what I thought was some golden nugget of information and listened even
more patiently as I expatiated on some new theory of W alt that I was
formulating. Ju st as Robert’ s drollery helped me through those long
lunchless days, so did Becky’ s kindness and unfailing good nature. One
couldn’ t ask for a better companion or a more decent human being. In
addition to everything else they did, Dave, Robert, and Rebecca  all read the
manuscript and provided comm ents that made this a better book than it
would o therwise have been. Thanks are due as well to Brian Hof fman of the
archives, and Shelly Graham at the Disney Photo Library , who  assisted in