# Página 420  
But W al t wasn’ t thinking only in terms of new narrative departures. He
was thin king of The Concert Featur e  as an entirely new kind of theatrical
experience. W atching a Pete Smith short called Audioscopiks,  f or whi ch he
donned special glasses to see a three-dimensional ef fect, W alt got the idea
of using  a similar ef fect for a se quence in his film and attachin g glasses to
the top of the program, and he set one of his special ef fects men to work on
it. He also discussed with Stokowski the possibility of wafting perfume into
the theater during the scenes with flowers. “I’m serious about  this whole
perfume idea,” he told Stokowsk i. “Y ou could space the perfume  to come in
only at certain times.” Most of  all, he latched onto the idea o f devising a
new sou nd repr oduction system  for the movie, one with a spe aker at the
front and center of the theater and other speakers to the left an d right and
down the sides to convey a sense of a full orchestra. “It would be quite a
sensation if you get that dimensi onal thing on the screen and have the horns
working with it,” W alt said. “The sound and pictures will be a round you.”
He called it Fantasound.
That fall, as he was concocting new ways of presenting his film, he began
working through  the visuals with the same determination and enthusiasm
that he had lavis hed on the musi c. For “T occata and Fugue” he had decided
to put the oscilla tions of the opt ical sound track on the screen and dispense
with any representational depict ions, but he warned special ef fe cts man Cy
Y oung, “W e don’ t want to follow what anyone else has done in the
abstract.” For “Night on Bald Mountain,” W alt had the idea of having the
devil playing either a violin or  an or gan and rising from the depths of a
volcano—“a sor t of mad musici an, gloating over the ef fect his music has on
the spiri ts.” Later—in fact, at a three-and-a-half-hour -long mee ting on the
afternoon of the studio concert— he had elaborated the idea into  the devil as
a “h uge Gulliver in the village with his cloak blowing and all these spirits
around t hese hou ses,” which would be accompanied by the soun d of a wind
sweeping across the theater , thanks to the new sound system. For
“Cydalise,” W al t thought of centaurs and fauns frolicking on an Elysian
Field where an old faun is holding class at a mythological music  school and
keeps having to scold a smart-a lecky young faun; then he decid ed to add a
scene w ith centaurettes and a finale in which the fauns chase the
centaurettes. But he had doubts about the fauns—“If you treat them as