# Página 11  
Norman Rockwell, the leading avatar of small-town, flag-waving America.
At the same time, however , his forward-looking television programs
depicting the future helped shape attitudes about technological change, and
NASA acknowledged that Disn ey’ s early drumbeating for its program was
instrumental in generating public support for space exploration. It was
Disney , too, who created T omor rowland at his Disneyland theme park and
collaborated wit h Monsanto on a House of the Future attractio n there, and
Disney who advanced the ideas of monorails, “people movers,” Audio-
Animatronic robots, and other marvels, even to the point of designing an
entire city that would, had it b een built, have incorporated the latest in
technology and urban planning. It made Disney at once a nostalgist and a
futurist, a conservative and a visionary .
Then there was his ef fect on nature and conservation. By
anthropomorphizing animals in his cartoons, Disney helped sensitize the
public to environmental issues; with Bambi  alone he triggered a national
debate on hunting. Later when, basically for his own curiosity , he
commissioned a  husband-and-wife filmmaking team to shoot footage of a
remote Alaskan island and then in 1948 had the film edited int o a story of
the s eals who lived and bred there, Seal Island,  he essen tially c reated a new
genre, the wildlife documentary , and though he would be sternly criticized
in so me quarters for imposing n arratives on nature and turning a nimals into
characters, his films may nevertheless have played a greater role than
anything else in popular culture in educating the public on conservation and
building a constituency for it.
Finally , there were Disney’ s acc omplishments as an entrepreneu r , albeit a
reluctant one. He was the first motion picture mogul to realize the potential
of televi sion as an ally rather th an an adversary , and his decisio n to make a
series fo r the American Broadcasting Company opened the way for a
rapprochement b etween the lar ge screen and the small one. He w as also the
first to bundle television programs, feature animation, live-action films,
documentaries, theme parks, mu sic, books, comics, character merchandise,
and edu cational films under one corporate shingle. In ef fect, as one
observer put it, he created the first “modern multimedia corporation” and
showed the way for the media c onglomerates that would follow . One critic