# Página 305  
described his indoctrination into the Disney method, “and we w orked a lot
of overtime and we got meal tickets and we were delighted to be there.”
Though they may have arrived at the studio haphazardly , many  of them
had been hired during a recruiting drive that W alt had launched in June
1934 to attract young animators  for Snow White,  despite the fact they had
no i dea the stud io was embarking on such a project. “The qu alification,”
went a recruiting letter drafted by Ben Sharpsteen that was sent to art
schools througho ut the country , “is an ability to draw well, creat ively , plus a
certain amount of imagination  that would be helpful in the study of
dramatics, whic h animators must acquire.” Once the call went out,
thousands respo nded—thirteen hundred from Chouinard alone by one
account, and thirty thousand overall by the end of the decade.
As p opular as the studio had become, it wasn’ t just the lure of Disney
that beckoned them; it was the l ure of any job at all. Y ears later Marc Davis
would sa y , as W alt himself had, that “the Depression was the gr eatest thing
that could ever have happened to W alt,” since there was no way he could
have gotten this talent otherwise. Davis was probably right. “It looked like a
real utopia in the height of the Depression,” John Lounsbery concurred. Of
the thou sands w ho responded to the ads or art school fliers by  submitting
samples or portfolios, roughly f ifteen hundred were selected from an initial
screening, and of these roughly seventy-five were given a one-week tryout
at the studio. Of these, roughly twenty advanced to the next stage of
training.
Now began the real test. W alt was not hiring these men to animate—not
yet—and certain ly not to should er the main load. Indeed, according to one
animator , it would take nearly ten years of apprenticeship for a trainee to
move from in-between work to  a classification as a master animator . He
was hir ing them to train for the herculean task that lay ahead of in-
betweening and assisting on Snow White.  W alt still griped that when he
hired ve teran animators, he had to put up with their “goddamn poor
working habits from doing che ap pictures.” It was easier , he believed, to
start from  scratc h with young ar t students and inculcate in them  the Disney