# Página 310  
doing, plus his native ingenuity and ability ,” W alt wrote Paul Hopkins of
the stud io perso nnel departmen t, “he will be enabled to handle all of the
Snow White action, with the exception of the sequence when the dwarfs
entertain her at night, which I intend Les Clark to handle.”
As Joe Grant saw it, W alt was “casting” the animators the way a casting
director for a li ve-action featur e would have selected actors. “If he gave
Grumpy to T ytla—T ytla was  a gr umpy chara cter; whoever did Happy was  a
happy c haracter . W alt figured it all out for himself.” Bumpti ous-looking
Fred Mo ore, wh o had drawn the little pigs and was working at the time on
the p igs in a sequel called Thr ee Little W olves,  was  to join Luske animating
the d warfs’ discovery of Snow W hite through the soup-eating sequence and
in addition drawing the dwarfs starting out for the mine, meeting in the
woods, a nd beg inning work on a bed, a gift for Snow White. Ef fervescent
Dick Lundy was to draw the d warfs entertaining Snow White. Stern Bill
T ytla, st ill in the hospital at the t ime recovering from his polo in jury , was to
draw the dwarfs in the mine, the dwarfs marching home, the dwarfs
discovering a light in their house, and the dwarfs exploring the house.
Johnny Roberts was to draw the dwarfs making the bed through the scene
where th e Queen leaps to her death. Master psychologist Norm  Fer guson,
the P luto expert, was to draw t he Queen’ s transformation into the peddler
woman, the making of the poiso ned apple, the Queen’ s visit to the Prince in
the d ungeon where she has imprisoned him (a scene that W alt would soon
excise), and the Queen starting of f for the dwarfs’ cottage. He was also to
draw most of the Queen’ s scen es up to her death. Les Clark would draw
Snow W hite herself during the entertainment sequence. And Art Babbitt,
who was char ged with designin g the Queen, would draw all the objects,
liegemen, and animals with which the Queen came into contact, including
her M agic Mirror , her huntsman , and her raven, feeling her out until he was
able to finalize her look. Similarly , even after the animation had started,
Grim Natwick, the old Betty Bo op specialist, was to continue w orking with
Luske and Clark on finding the right design for Snow White. (Natwick later
said that he was allowed “two months of experimental animation before
they eve r asked me to animate o ne scene in the picture.”) At the same time
W alt assigned Frank Churchill, his in-house composer , to write  the music,
and he divided the story department into six units, each with a separate