# Página 496  
discuss the matter directly with the head of the Conciliation Service, Dr .
John Ste elman. But before Roy left he instructed the board of directors to
close down the entire studio on August 18, save for a ske leton crew
finishing Dumbo  and another doi ng the Mickey Mouse comic strip, pending
Dewey’ s arrival in Los Angeles. As it turned out, Dewey , either too ill or
too exas perated, never did arrive, and the guild refused a request from the
Conciliation Service to accept the layof fs until the list could be revised.
Over the next two weeks, as the studio remained closed, Roy made two
more trips to W a shington attemp ting to resolve the issue—“hat in hand and
on b ended knee,” according to D ave Hand, who accompanied him—and on
September 10 the Conciliation S ervice finally issued a ruling, setting a ratio
in ea ch department of strikers t o nonstrikers and ordering that the layof fs
maintain that ratio.
And so on September 16, after three and a half months, work finally
resumed at the B urbank studio with 694 employees on the pay roll—down
from nea rly 1,20 0 at the beginn ing of the strike. Despite the cutbacks, Roy
and W alt felt they had been sandbagged by the Conciliation Ser vice, which,
they tho ught, had favored the u nion.* O f his forays t o W ashington, Roy
wrote W alt, “W e are definitely in a period of social revolution and changes
and if we’re goi ng to continue to  conduct our business, we’re going to have
to f ind out ho w to work wi th the present social problems and the
W ashington administration attitude.” In short, the government, as Lessing
had implied earlier , was now as much of a problem as the union.  
While W alt was in South Am erica, something else had happened. Ever
since Fl ora Disney’ s death Elias Disney had been, in his daughter Ruth’ s
words, “complet ely lost and heartbroken.” Though his doctor found him in
“remarkable phy sical condition for a man of his age,” at eight y-two Elias
nevertheless suf fered memory lapses, as one might have expected, and
occasionally seemed to think that his wife was still alive. Ruth thought he
was still  discom bobulated by the gas. W alt would take Diane and Sharon to
visit him every Sunday at the house in T oluca Lake to whic h Elias had