# Página 484  
work, ca lling it “stif f, old-fashio ned stuf f” and told Jaxon to pressure him to
do better . “He’ s a very stubborn punk,” W alt said, “but we’ve got to get him
out of the groove he’ s in.” As further harassment, someone at  the studio,
probably Lessing, arranged to have Babbitt arrested and jailed, allegedly for
possession of a concealed weap on, on the day he was to testify before the
NLRB on the fe deration—“so concealed,” Babbitt would say y ears later of
the weapon, “that to this day they have not found it.” But Babbitt also
goaded back. In mid-April he had called W alt to ask for a raise for his
assistant, who was earning on ly eighteen dollars a week. W alt erupted,
telling h im to “mind your ow n goddamn business” and calling him a
“Bolshevik.” He continued to electioneer at the studio and distributed
copies of V ariety  wit h the story on the NLRB decision. “It is Babbitt,”
Lessing wrote W alt, “who is keeping this plant in a turmoil.”
By this time W alt had reached the end of his patience. On May 20,
apparently hopin g to quash the revolt once and for all, he beg an releasing
animators, twen ty of them, all SCG members. Protesting what it called a
“blitzkrieg,” the union wired W alt requesting a summit to discuss the
dismissals or face a strike vote. W alt refused. On May 27 W alt called
another studio meeting in the theater at which he read a brie f statement
claiming he would not agree to any settlement that would  force his
employees to join the union and he would bar gain only with a union chosen
by a majority v ote on a secret ballot. The SCG, insisting that its cards
already proved it had a majority , believed a vote was unnecessary and a
union-busting tactic. After the speech Anthony O’Rourke, the labor
attorney who was still advising W alt, phoned Lessing and told him that the
statement “went over with a ba ng and that it had a wonderful ef fect.” The
union, h e averred, was already suf fering a backlash, and he predicted that
within f ive days  the “backbone of the strike will be broken.” The union
responded by granting W alt a thirty-six-hour extension to explain the
dismissals and then took a strike vote.
W alt had now g one too far to give in. He could restore paradis e only by
expelling the traitors. The n ext afternoon Babbitt was exiting the
commissary afte r lunch when the chief of the studio police took his arm and
handed h im a letter , telling him it was “bad news.” The letter , fr om Lessing,