# Página 152  
with Plane Crazy .  In the first pla ce, there were psychological hurdles to
overcome in the very notion of talking animations. Though audiences
expected to hear people  t alk  or sing, the y were not init ially accustomed to
hearing voices from drawings. “Drawings are not vocal,” W ilfred Jackson
said. “Why should a voice  c ome out of a cartoon character?” Animators
were concerned  that it would seem unnatural, peculiar , and of f-putting,
which was one reason why W alt  insisted that his sound had to be realistic—
in Jackson’ s words, “as if the noise was coming right from what the
character was doing.”
In the second place, there was the daunting technical matter of how one
synchronized th e drawings with the sound—an area in which n o one, W alt
Disney i ncluded, had any expertise. “Damn it, I know how fast film goes,”
Jackson overhea rd W alt griping one day , “but how fast does music go?”
Jackson was still among the lowest in the Disney hierarchy , but he popped
his head  in the d oor , said his mother was a piano teacher , and suggested that
W alt use a metronome to determine the number of frames of animation per
beats of music. I n short order Jackson devised a “dope sheet,” l ater called a
“bar she et,” that  indicated the nu mber of measures in each piece  of musical
accompaniment and then relate d the cartoon actions to the music. “W e
could break down the sound ef fe cts so that every eight frames we’d have an
accent, o r every sixteen frames, or every twelve frames,” Les Clark said.
“And on  that twelfth drawing, sa y , we’d accent whatever was happening—a
hit on the head or a footstep or whatever it would be, to synchronize the
sound ef fect to the music.”
It was the prosp ect of sound no w that motivated the staf f—the prospect
of doing  something no one had done. They finished animating  the second
Mickey , The Gallopin’ Gaucho,  a silen t that was already in p roduction
when W alt hatch ed his plan, the n eagerly moved on to the third cartoon—
the soun d cartoon. Just as W alt had spoofed Lindber gh in Plane  Crazy  and
swashbuckler Douglas Fairbanks in The Gaucho,  he decided to spoof
comedian Buster Keaton’ s Steamboat Bill, Jr .  for Steamboat W illie.  Eager to
test the proposition of sound, o nce again the staf f worked quickly . Iwerks
said that they resolved the story  in a single night, and within w eeks he had
animated a musical test sequence of Mickey/W illie at the steamboat’ s