# Página 536  
produced in all of 1941. “If every American could visit the [Disney]
studio,” W alter W anger wrote glowingly that September in The Satur day
Review of Literatur e,  “ he would hav e a new admiration for his country .
There is  nothing  comparable to it in the world. More experts, sc ientists, and
technicians oper ate under Disney’ s roofs than in any other one or ganization
in th e un iverse.” Patriotic as he was, W alt nevertheless complai ned to A. V .
Cauger ’ s wife, when she wrote  asking whether W alt might hav e a job for
his old Kansas C ity Film Ad bo ss, “W e all have to adjust ourselves to the
W ar capital conditions and await the time when the world once more returns
to a state of normalcy .” Until then he just had to keep going.
But as he waited , he was distracted and disconsolate. Ollie Johnston, who
was classified 4-F due to an ulcer , remembered meeting W alt in the
hallways and he would begin to converse, then stop suddenly and lean
against t he wall  for several min utes without saying a word. “A nd I didn’ t
want to walk away ,” Johnston said, “because I knew he wanted somebody
there. He was down because there just wasn’ t anything he really could get
involved in.” Though the shorts—the Donald Ducks, the Goofys, and the
Plutos—continued to move through the studio to fulfill the contractual
obligations to RKO, the market was oversaturated, and in any case W alt had
long since ceased to care. After V ictory  he trie d to interest Roy in th e
possibility of combining The W ind in the W illows,  which was still slowly
snaking its way through production, and the Mickey Mouse featurette on
Jack and the Beanstalk into a single film, or even combining W illows  with
Gr emlins,  but  Roy  wasn’ t  encouraging. If they were to get any return, the
budget couldn’ t exceed $450,000—even Dumbo  had cost $200,000 more
than tha t—and the best W alt could do, after cutting and slashing, was
$523,000. Even at that, Roy said single-subject features were still more
promising, despite the fact that the studio couldn’ t currently produce them,
and if it did, the business of fice had set a maximum budget for new
productions far below that of Snow White, Pinocchio,  or Fantasia.  W alt’ s
only option was to keep going to W ashington to toady to the of ficials there
in hopes of keeping the government pump primed.