# Página 454  
Rosenber g again because they had decided to hit the Bank of America for
another loan. (The stock issue had helped pay of f the debts, but it was not a
fund on which they could continually draw .) “They have absolute
confidence in us,” Roy wrote W alt the day before Rosenber g’ s visit. “They
rely on everything we tell them to the nth degree, but they are so pessimistic
with reg ard to the outside world  that they do not believe they are  justified in
loaning any money based on expectations involving foreign countries, no
matter w here they are.” The ban k was willing to loan the studio another $2
million with a $ 250,000 cushio n, but Roy warned W alt that the bank had
already been told W alt was goin g to economize, cutting staf f a nd reducing
salaries. “I believe strongly ,” Roy closed, “that the thing for us to do is not
to cross them o r even ar gue w ith them too much, but to go along with
them.”
VI
If th e studio’ s d esperation for more money never changed, anot her thing at
the studi o never  changed either—the frenzied rushes to meet a release date.
After much scheduling and rescheduling, the studio had decided to release
Fantasia  in Nove mber 1940 rather than rush Bambi  or Dumbo,  which was
already moving at a breakneck pace. Deems T aylor arrived at the studio in
mid-August to shoot narration while Stokowski headed of f for a tour of
South America with W alt’ s assurance that “we are using our best judgment
in m aking the p icture and music blend together as it [ sic ] sho uld.” As w ith
Snow White  and Pinocchio,  the staf f worked long shifts that summer and
into the fall. On e cameraman said he spent twelve hours each day for an
entire year working on Fantasia  because the special ef fects were so
extravagant; a scene that migh t last only three seconds on screen might
require twelve exposures. (W al t was especially keen on ef fec ts to evoke
awe.) Unlike Bambi  and Dumbo,  W alt supervised everything. He would
watch the dailies, the film that had been shot the previous day , every
afternoon at three o’clock in room 3E down the hall from his of fice.
Meanwhile the animators were working just as furiously . Y ears later , when
college students would smoke marijuana while watching Fantasia  for its
wild hallucinato ry ef fects, Art Babbitt would be asked whether he had