# Página 279  
animator , while another described him as exceptionally thin—he was five
feet ten inches ta ll and weighed 150 pounds—and “rodent-faced .” He didn’ t
naturally exude power or charisma and didn’ t seem to mind. Unlike other
movie m oguls h e never arrogated power to himself for the sake of seeming
powerful, and he sometimes viv idly recalled a haunting childhood incident
from Marceline  where he caught an owl and, when it resisted him,
inexplicably threw it to the gro und, killing it—an incident, he said, that
triggered nightmares and seemed to indicate ambivalent feeling s about his
own controlling impulses.
Still, the studio bent to his will and his alone. His moods, wh ich were
more changeable since the breakdown and under the increasing pressure,
determined the mood of Hyperion, and some employees joked that W alt
would stop in the basement each morning to change into his “mood
costume” for the day , while oth ers advised that one had to call the security
guard at the gat e to see which W alt had arrived. If W alt was in his “bear
suit,” as employees described h is foulest mood, he could be cruel—“apt to
rip a storyboard  apart for no apparent reason,” Frank Thoma s and Ollie
Johnston wrote.  Similarly , the e ntire studio had to be attuned to his ideas
and desires, making it the primary objective of every person in his employ
to determine what it was W alt wanted.
The problem was that, for all the  rationalization of the animation process,
W alt operated almost entirely by instinct—a problem compounded by the
fact that he ha d a dif ficult tim e conveying what his instinct told him,
especially since he no longer drew well enough to show the ani mators, and
because he was so instinctive he changed his mind as often as he changed
his moods. “The big part of my  career was to decide when W alt meant it
and when he di dn’ t mean it,” J axon said. “Usually I tried to inform W alt
what I had in m ind by sending him a memo. In the note I’d tel l him how I
intended to spend his money . I’d send the memo up in the afternoon, and he
usually read it a t night at home. If the phone was ringing when I walked in,
I knew it was a good thing I checked.” Others said that sussing out W alt
Disney was a matter of osmosis. Y ou watched him in the story meetings and
the swea tbox sessions and at th e previews and tried to guess what he was
thinking.