# Página 773  
animating Ludwig V on Drake, a new character , for W onderful W orld of
Color ,  a clear humiliation.
As the old guard left, a new guard had moved in, headed by Bill
Anderson, the production chief, and Card W alker , a longtime employee who
had worked his way through the ranks from a traf fic boy to a camera
operator to a m ember of the s tory department to publicity chief to vice
president of advertising and sales, though his purview seemed to
incorporate much more. W ithin this operation W alt called himself the
studio’ s “execut ive producer ,” having resigned all his of ficial titles in 1963.
“I’m the  boss of everything that’ s produced here,” he told a jo urnalist, to
explain his function. “I work on story ideas and gags; I work on every
script, w riting d ialogue and planning scenes. When the story is set, I turn it
over to the boys, and they make it.”
Of cours e while W alt had been working on Disneyland, that de scription
hadn’ t been entirely true. His in volvement in production had been minimal
then; he generall y just reviewed the scripts, approved the casts, and fired of f
memos on small rectangles of  distinctive dark blue paper o r scribbled
instructions in a bold red crayon, typically “ NO ” or “ OK. ” “I’m not the
perfectionist any more,” he told a reporter , not altogether accurately . “It’ s
my staf f . They’r e the ones alwa ys insisting on doing something better and
better . I’m the guy trying to hurry them to finish before they s poil a job.”
But as Disneylan d settled into a routine, W alt, evidently bored again, slowly
disengaged from the park as he  had from the studio, resigned all his titles
there as well, and reasserted his control in Burbank. He became the
paterfamilias again, not only reading the scripts but also painstakingly
polishing them, not only approv ing the casts but also making sure the actors
were comfortable at the studio, not only sending memos but also sitting in
on endle ss produ ction meetings to make certain the films were ready before
they wer e put before the camera s. “It was run from the top dow n, but there
were no middlemen,” wrote one employee at the time. “At the top, alone,
like Napoleon (and at times like Attila the Hun), was our leader and captain,
el Jafe  [ sic ] , Numer o Uno,  t he Man, the Boss—in short , W alter Elias
Disney . All things started with W alt. And W alt had the final word—
always!” “W alt would never let any person get in and start bu ilding a big