# Página 784  
investors. “[I]f you see fit to set  up a Joseph P . Kennedy Scholarship,” W alt
wrote th e presid ent’ s father in a  typical solicitation, “I can assu re you your
grandchildren will receive originals from all of W alt Disney’ s cartoon
features to come.” Kennedy contributed.
IV
New Y ork loomed. When 1964 arrived, the Imagineers at WED were still
making final preparations for the world’ s fair that would open  that April.
Once W alt got over the problems with Henry Ford, the Ford at traction had
proven surprisingly easy . He had ridden it shortly before the opening of the
fair and pronoun ced himself pleased with the results. The GE Carousel of
Progress had been a more dif fi cult project, particularly since the pavilion
had so many e lements besides  the central show . When the Imagineers
finished it, W alt invited GE executives to the studio to take a look. They
were sat isfied with the result, but W alt, after all this time, had a hesitation
of his own. “It doesn’ t have a wienie!” he told them. “Come back in a
couple of weeks and I’ll show y ou.” As one of the GE of ficials later told it,
he had no idea what W alt mean t. But within a week, they received a call
asking that they return to the studio. This time the show w as virtually
identical to the first one—except that W alt had added a comical Audio-
Animatronic dog to each scene. It was the finishing touch on the exhibit.
The mai n probl em with It’ s a Small W orld had been time. W alt didn’ t
even see the pro totype for the s inging children until Septembe r . “W e were
living o f f of black cof fee in th e morning and martinis for lu nch,” Rolly
Crump r ecalled. When it opened, in what was essentially a metal shed since
the budget provided for nothing more, Roy complained about the expense
but w rote W alt t hat “it is very gratifying to see that the show is getting such
a go od reception,” and he predicted that “we will have a goo d chance of
breaking even on it.”
The major headache was Abraham Lincoln. It had taken a year just to
design L incoln’ s head and longer than that to program the robot. But the
matter o f Lincoln’ s voice was ev en more dif ficult. Several Lincoln scholars