# Página 1203  
I a m also indeb ted to Jon’ s assistant, Ida Giragossian, who once again
performed so many thankless but necessary tasks and who served as
wrangler in getting the manuscri pt through production; to Gabrielle Brooks,
my publ icist, wh o seems genuinely to love the books she champions, which
is w hy her autho rs genuinely love her; to the incomparable Me l Rosenthal,
who scrutinized  the manuscript with his unfailing eye and engaged me in
long, fru itful debates on style a nd grammar; to Soonyoung Kwon for her
sensitive design  of the book; and to Barbara de W ilde, who d esigned her
third jac ket for me with her usual inventiveness and brilliance. Finally , like
everyone at Knopf, I am grateful to Sonny Mehta for the stand ards he sets
and the support he provides. Anyone working at Knopf has some sense of
the mission that the Disney animators felt in the studio’ s heyday .
In m y ca reer I have only had one agent, which testifies to how w onderful
my agen t is professionally as w ell as how much I adore her per sonally . For
twenty-five years now Elaine Markson has been a source of encouragement,
reassurance, understanding, and calm. She reads acutely , she defends
ferociously , she intervenes diplomatically , and she supports enth usiastically .
I cannot imagine doing a book without her .
As much as this  book has been the product of dozens if not hu ndreds of
individuals, it finally belongs to  my family , who often had to su f fer through
the research and writing of it an d who certainly sacrificed for it. I hope they
think that it was worth it since the gratitude I can extend to them—to my
wife, Ch ristina, my daughters Laurel and Tänne (to whom this book is
dedicated), and my mother—is certainly insuf ficient. I love my work, but I
live for them.
Needless to say , I take full respo nsibility for what appears on the se pages,
even though, like W alt Disney , I had an army of people to help. My
profoundest hope is that I have justified their faith in me and in this project.