# Página 157  
$1,000, includin g a royalty of one cent per foot on all prints. “My idea is to
get the thing scored and preview it in a Broadway house and get the critics
[ sic ] opinion s and then get busy on a deal for a good release,” he wr ote Roy
after closing his agreement with Powers.
Four days later , when W alt gave Powers a $500 check as a deposit—“Be
sure and have enough money in the account to meet the ch eck,” W alt
warned Roy , evidence of their p recarious financial situation—the terms had
abruptly shifted from Powers’ s flat fifty-dollar fee to a royalty of one dollar
per foot  of film, but even with this increase W alt was still con vinced that
“ our best bet is Powers, ” and he prepared nervously for the grand recording
session schedule d to begin early  on the morning of September  15. Powers
had arranged for Edouarde, the ruddy-faced, white-maned conductor whom
W alt had  met at Powers’ s of fice, to lead the orchestra, which consisted of
seventeen musicians abetted by , as W alt ef fused, three of the “best T rap
Drummers and Ef fects men in T own” at a rate of ten dollars an hour per
man, all crammed into a tiny recording studio.
In its implications for the studio , September 15 was a day almost to rival
the W illie  exp eriment earlier that summer . Right from the outset, howev er ,
the sign s were not encouraging . The first musician to arrive was a bass
player w ith a bottle of whiskey in his case who blew a vacuum tube in the
sound recording equipment every time he played, forcing the engineers to
move him out of the room. Then W alt began fighting with Edouarde over
incorporating “t oo many Symphonic ef fects,” since the maestro seemed to
believe that comedy music was beneath him. But there was worse to come
—much worse. T o assist Edouarde, W alt had provided a blank film with
markings on it i n India ink for the beat, but as the strip was pr ojected, the
conductor could  never manage to get the orchestra to hit the  marks and
finally prevailed upon W alt to let him try it his own way . Y et as the time ran
on and the costs mounted, Edouarde could still not get the orchestra in
synchronicity w ith the film. By  the end of the session W alt himself had
blown a take when he coughed into the mike while providing the voice for a
parrot, a nd the music and soun ds still did not gibe with the cartoon. W alt
had spen t over $1,000 that the s tudio could scarcely af ford and had nothing
to show for it.