# Página 238  
in its fundamental relationship to the viewer , and it was the one that most
distinguished Disney animation from its forebears: all characters had to be
treated as if the y were not mer ely animated but living—an approach that
came to be calle d “personality animation.” “Everything in his cartoons had
to have a personality ,” animato r W ard Kimball said. “He insis ted that if a
tree was bashful, it had to act like it was bashful. If it was a villainous tree,
it had to behave like a villain.  He always demanded complete character
delineation from  his animators.” At one story session W alt a sked, “How
would a piano feel if Mickey bangs on it too hard?”
For W alt, personality was not a function of physical behavior or even of
the e motional responses that one  could slap upon a character . The magic of
animation, the magic of Disney  animation, was that personality seemed to
emer ge from the drawings as if it had been internalized. “Y ou have to
portray not only [that] this thing is moving,” W alt once said , “but it is
actually alive and thinks.” The idea of a thinking, feeling cartoon character ,
a charac ter with  psychology and emotional range, was a revelation even at
the Disn ey stud io, where just a  few years before there was concern over
whether an audience would ac cept a voice emanating from a drawing.
When N orm Fer guson animated  W ebb Smith’ s sequence of Plut o struggling
with the flypaper in Playful Pluto  in 1934, the ef fect on the studio was
electric—the “on e big one,” W il fred Jackson called it. “It was a blockbuster
because you could see the wheels going around in the character ’ s head,”
W ard Ki mball recalled. “And we were just more or less pulling out of that
bouncing, danc ing, musical age of Disney shorts, where all of our
characters with big smiles on their faces kept time to the music or played an
instrument. Her e comes a character that gets stuck with a situation and
keeps building, almost like a Buster Keaton, or Harold Lloyd, or a Chaplin
sequence.” Fer guson, whose animation had already won W alt’ s admiration
for i ts fluidity , now won furthe r admiration for its psychology and depth.
“Fer gy , you’re a great actor ,” W alt announced in front of the staf f one day ,
and when Fer guson simpered and shrank in embarrassment, W alt insisted,
“Y es, yo u are. That’ s why your animation is so good, because y ou feel. Y ou
feel what these characters feel.”