# Página 146  
“was tha t horrib le name, Mortimer…. I’m afraid I made quite a scene about
it.” “T oo  sissy ,” she said. When  she calmed down, W alt asked her what she
thought of the name Mickey , an Irish name, an outsider ’ s name. “I said it
sounded better than Mortimer , and that’ s how Mickey was born.”
As the legend w ould have it, W alt had been inspired in his choice of a
mouse for a ch aracter by experiences in Kansas City . He had, variously ,
been sitting on a park bench when a mouse scampered by; or , while
working for the Film Ad Co., he  had caught mice in his wastebasket, where
they were feasting on scraps from lunches the of fice girls had thrown away ,
then built a box for them and kept them as pets, naming o ne of them
Mortimer; or , while bunking at the Laugh-O-Gram of fice, he had heard a
mouse r unning about; or , at som e undefined time, he had fou nd a mouse
scratching at his windowsill try ing to escape and put him in a cof fee tin—
the first of ma ny mice he supposedly captured. In these a ccounts, he
sometimes train ed the mice, tapping one of them on his nose as he ran
across the top of W alt’ s drawing board and causing him to change direction.
Or he would feed them from h is fingers and then draw them in dif ferent
poses. “ I’ll never for get the scr eam one girl gave when she came into the
of fice one day and found a little mouse perched on my drawing board while
I s ketched him,” he recalled. In one story he told, when he left Kansas City
for Los Angeles, he took his pet  mouse (just one here) and turned him loose
in a field. “When I looked ba ck he was still sitting there in the field
watching me with a sad, disappointed look in his eyes.”
Such was the legend, but the truth was likely much more banal. Y ears
later Lil lian wou ld comment that when they returned to Los Angeles, Roy
met them  at the station, despond ent that W alt had been unable to make any
connection and seemingly uninterested in or unimpressed by what W alt
called a “wonderful idea,” presumably Mickey . Ub Iwerks told it somewhat
dif ferently . He said that W alt himself was deflated, hardly th e frame of
mind for someone who had jus t created a new character in which he was
bursting with confidence. Iwerks called it “one of the absolute low points in
W alt’ s life. Usually W alt was ve ry enthusiastic and bubbly and bouncy , no
matter what happened. But he h ad met a stone wall in the East. ” In fact, in
Iwerks’ s version  of events, as opposed to what he later derided as “highly