# Página 406  
thought it was a  way to rehabi litate Mickey , saying that Dopey had been
considered initially . Still, apparently very early in the process, storyman
Chester S. Cobb had been assig ned to investigate possibilities for the film
and concluded, “It would be dif ficult to invent an interesting ap prentice—a
kid wou ldn’ t be  comic enough.” But, Cobb went on, “Mickey or the Goof
[referring to a subsidiary char acter] in a good imaginative atmosphere
would have a lot more audi ence value as the apprentice than any
symphony-type character we might invent.” Stokowski wasn’ t persuaded.
“What w ould yo u think of creat ing an entirely new personality for this film
instead of Mickey?” he wrote  W alt in November 1937. “A personality
which could represent Y ou and  Me—in other words, someone that would
represent in the mind and heart of everyone seeing the film their own
personality , so that they would enter into all the drama and emotional
changes of the film in a most intense manner .” It was one of th e few times
W alt disregarded a Stokowski suggestion. W alt did think of Mickey Mouse
as “you and me,” and in a last-ditch rescue mission, he had decided that the
sorcerer ’ s apprentice would be his alter ego.  
Whatever appeal The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  h eld for him, W alt, usually so
painstakingly deliberate, moved with uncharacteristic haste, most likely
because he needed something  t o adva nce. In July 1937 he ha d secured the
rights to the music, and by late August storyman Otto Eng lander had
submitted an outline, with W alt  insisting that “we should try to follow out
the idea  of the music as much as possible and not change it any more than
necessary .” Once Stokowski had entered the picture, W alt was especially
ener gized—“all steamed up,” as  he put it in a letter to Gregory Dickson, an
RKO pu blicity executive who had happened to meet Stokowski on a train
and disc ussed th e project with him. “W e would all like, very much, to have
the oppo rtunity of working with him on this picture and, if possible, to get
started on it imm ediately ,” W alt continued, of fering to put “the  finest men
in th e plant, from  color men down to animators, on THE SORCERER. ” He
closed, “I am greatly enthused over the idea and believe that the union of
Stokowski and his music, toget her with the best of our medium, would be