# Página 174  
dismal, the success of the Mickeys lifted spirits. The animators  would now
play pranks on one another—pouring water on a chair as someone was
about to sit in it or putting chees e on the light under a colleague’ s animation
board or Art Gum eraser shavings in his pipe tobacco. “But all the
horseplay and jokes,” Iwerks said, “never got in the way of the work. W e all
loved what we were doing and the enthusiasm got onto the screen.” Indeed,
when a reporter glowingly desc ribed the carefree atmosphere at Hyperion,
W alt act ually took of fense, griping to Giegerich that “one woul d gather we
are nothing but a happy-go-lucky bunch of fellows without any system or
or ganization about us, and that all I do is sit on my fanny and pass out the
checks to the fellows.”
There w as some thing else too t hat gave the Disney studio an esprit and
sense o f fraternity: W alt’ s own informality . Freed from the constant
demands and financial tensions of the Mintz era, he was a dif fer ent man. He
prided h imself on being one of the guys, even cultivated it. “W e haven’ t any
president or any other of ficers,”  he told a visiting reporter proudly . “In fact,
we are not even incorporated. I  guess you couldn’ t call us a company . W e
voice our opinions and sometimes we have good old-fashioned scraps, but
in the end things get ironed out and we have something we’re al l proud of.”
Most of the employees even had  a key to the studio’ s front door . W alt could
still be demanding and caustic, especially with longtime associates like
Iwerks, but having learned from his experience with the mutineers who
detested him, W alt drew closer to his animators, stopping by their desks to
talk not just a bout their work but about their interests a nd making
suggestions to them without seeming overbearing. “The men  loved it,”
Iwerks said, “and they all responded.”  
But as smoothly as W alt had the new operation running, his pursuit of
excellence eventually ran up against an intractable reality that always
seemed to bedevil him: money . Quality was expensive, and there never
seemed to be enough money to support it. The early Mickeys cost between
$4,180 ( Mickey’ s Follies ) and  $5 ,357 ( The Karnival Kid ) to produce, which