# Página 293  
either , a nd one UA executive to ld Gunther Lessing that “foreign countries
were ye lling for  a feature and that we would easily gross, without trouble,
$1,750,000.00 world[wide],” which would have been an extraordinary
return at  the time. Still, given the uncertainty about how long it would take
to m ake the film and exactly how much it would cost, UA didn’ t seem
eager to  provide a substantial a dvance. Already by November 1933 Roy
was meeting with Jock Whitney ,  the head of Pioneer Pictures and one of the
nation’ s wealthiest men, about financing the feature, and he was also talking
with Darryl Zanuck, the head o f production at T wentieth Century Pictures,
and Joseph Schenck, their old ally , about putting up the money . Roy thought
they all wanted too lar ge a share  of the profits, but he wrote W alt that “they
seemed sold to [ sic ] the  idea that the first feature ca rtoon, at least, would be
a big  su ccess.” E ven as the estim ated budget kept rising, from $250,000 to
$400,000, Schen ck, who was on e of the few executives the Disneys trusted,
yielded and decided to underwri te the entire amount in exchang e for a third
of the profits, but when he suf f ered a sudden financial setback and had to
pull out,  the Disneys were forced to scrape together whatever they could for
the time being and postpone getting the rest of the financing until they
started actual production. When naysayers said that Roy was buying
himself a sweepstakes ticket by investing so much of the studio’ s profits in
Snow White,  he said, “W e’ve bought the whole damned sweepstakes.”
Meanwhile, by the spring of 1934, W alt had launched the first phase of
the project: honing the story a nd writing the screenplay . At live-action
studios, executiv es typically assigned a story to a writer , who then produced
a draft. W alt had a dif ferent process. He set up a small unit next to his of fice
staf fed by several of his cartoon storymen—Dick Creedon, Larry Morey ,
Harry Bailey—a nd then began funneling them various versions  of the fairy
tale with numerous variations, a mong them the Prince being im prisoned by
the Q ueen, the Q ueen making three attempts on Snow White’ s life, and the
Queen dying by dancing herself  to death in red-hot shoes. By the time the
group began producing outlines that summer , however , W alt’ s own
recitation seems  to have prevailed, and if anyone, amid the flurry of
treatments and notes, can be said to be the author of the script, it is W alt
Disney h imself. When the group first met with W alt in October to review
the treat ments, W alt was already reprocessing and refining the material and