# Página 404  
But if W alt wa s using The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  to express his own
concerns, he had another , more prosaic incentive for making the short: his
dedication to one of his most stalwart supporters. Actress Helen Hayes
recalled visiting  the studio in 1937 and W alt showing her a n ew Mickey
Mouse cartoon. “Of course you know Donald is the big thing now ,” W alt
told her , “but it won’ t last. Mickey is forever . He’ll have his moments in the
shade, but he’ll always come out in the bright lights again.” In truth, if
anything the shade had grown even darker for Mickey Mouse . The early
Mickey Mouse had been, as John Updike described him, “Am erica as it
feels to itself—plucky , put-upon, inventive, resilient, good-natu red, game.”
But as he had become increasingly domesticated, he had also become
increasingly a cipher . “Our dil emma became one of trying to find new ,
logical material for Mickey , mo re sophisticated material, if you will,” W ard
Kimball reflected. “As we got m ore personality and character into the other
cartoons, it became more and more dif ficult to cope with Mickey….
Mickey was really an abstraction. He wasn’ t based on anything that was
remotely real.” Animator Friz Freleng agreed: “Mickey Mouse was a
nothing, really . After the novelt y of animation was over , there was nothing
left but a black-and-white drawing moving around. Y ou really don’ t
associate yourself with that character at all.” Directors and animators began
referring to him as a “Boy Scou t” in reference to his lack of spi kiness—his
blandness.
W alt was not willing to surre nder Mickey so easily . He as ked Jack
Kinney to develop Mickey narratively into something more than a
supporting playe r to Donald Du ck, and he char ged Fred Moor e and W ard
Kimball (by one account Moore acted on his own initiative) with
redesigning Mickey to make him look more appealing, which was Moore’ s
stock in trade. A s Thomas and Johnston reported it, W alt watched footage
of M oore’ s newly redesigned Mickey in the sweatbox, demanding that it be
run repeatedly until he finally paused, turned to Moore, and said, “Now
that’ s the way I want Mickey to be drawn from now on!” Moore had made
Mickey softer . Where the mouse had previously been constructed as a series
of circle s, whic h made him eas y to draw , Moore now sugges ted that the
“body is to be drawn as somewhat pear shape, fairly short and plump” so