# Página 161  
leaving the impression that he had reconsidered. The next morning he
headed t o Powe rs’ s of fice for a dvice. Powers told W alt that Universal was
trying to “pull a  fast one” and counseled him to pretend he was  negotiating
with another distributor , hoping that this would force Unive rsal’ s hand.
Obviously parro ting Powers, W alt wrote Lillian that “if I got d own on my
knees to them it would be far worse for us on this deal,” and he was not
going to let Uni versal “bulldose” [ sic ] him. “They are all just a bunch of
schemers,” W alt concluded, “and just full of tricks that would fool a
greenhorn,” whi ch is what he realized he was. He was just lucky , he said, to
have a friend and adviser like Powers.
The spar ring continued over the next week. Universal said that it needed
to m ake more calculations before it could make an of fer , while W alt said he
could not wait, t hough privately he was certain Universal would eventually
capitulate, and he was meeting daily with Powers to map strategy . “In this
game the guy w ith the most patience seems to win out,” W alt wrote Roy .
Meanwhile W alt showed the film to Paramount executives who were
“amased” [ sic ] and to executives of the Film Booking Of fice who “became
very ent hused.” By the end of October , though, neither Paramou nt nor FBO
had mad e an of fer , and Universal finally decided that their contract with
Mintz precluded  them from distributing any other cartoons. W alt was
crushed—his high spirits once again flattened.
Because he was so short on mo ney , all this time W alt had been goading
Iwerks t o finish the fourth Mick ey , called The Barn Dance,  so that he could
have tha t one scored and reco rded along with musical tracks for Plane
Crazy  and The Gallopin’ Gaucho  bef ore returning home. “If you ever
worked like HELL  i n your life, do it now ,” he wro te him. The music for all
the carto ons but  The Barn Dance  h ad already be en written by W alt’ s old
musical colleagu e Carl Stalling. On the train out to New Y or k, W alt had
stopped in Kansas City and pr oselytized Stalling on the future of sound
movies, then left Plane Crazy  and The Gallopin’ Gaucho  for him to score
while W alt continued on to arrange to have W illie  r eco rded. Stalling arrived
in New Y ork the morning of the day before the Universal verdic t and holed
up with W alt in his hotel room  past midnight talking and wor king. Three
days later a pri nt of The Barn Dance  h ad arrived, and they prepared to