# Página 109  
Fleischers were threatening to le ave, and she and Pat Sullivan, who was so
dif ficult and addled by alcohol that he once allegedly urinated on the desk
of P aramount Pictures head A dolph Zukor to force a conce ssion, were
locked in a bitter dispute over the renewal of the Felix option. W alt’ s
timing, then, could not have been better , which is no doubt w hy W inkler
wrote back to th is unknown novice almost immediately upon receiving his
first letter , saying that she would be “very pleased” to have him send a print
and that “if it is what you say , I shall be interested in contracting for a series
of them.” But however encouraged W alt may have been, he did not have the
print to send while he was in Kansas City because Fred Schmeltz, the
Laugh-O-Gram creditor , had it. He continued to correspond with W inkler ,
apologizing ove r the delays while refusing to admit that he did not own the
print or that he would have to re monstrate with Schmeltz to show it; by the
time he reached Los Angeles, W inkler was getting impatient over his foot-
dragging. Corre sponding, she wrote him drily early in Sept ember , was
“about a ll it [their communicati on] has amounted to.” But in a sign of her
own desperation  over the Felix  and Inkwell threats and not realizing that
W alt had no more than one Alice, she asked him “[i]f you can spare a
couple of them long enough to send to me so that I can screen them and see
just what they are, please do so at once.”
Most likely the first week of  October via Alicoate, W inkler finally
screened Alice’ s W onderland  in New Y ork and pounced. “BELIEVE
SERIES CAN BE PUT OVER,”  s he wired W al t on October 1 5, while
emphasizing tha t the photography of Alice had to be more fin ely focused
and the camera held steadier . She also cautioned, by way of lim iting W alt’ s
financial expectations, “THIS BEING NEW PRODUCT MUST SPEND
LARGE AMOUNT ON E XPLOIT A TION AND ADVER TISING
THEREFORE N EED YOUR COOPERA TION.”  She of fered $1,500 for
each neg ative of the first six films and $1,800 for each of the sec ond six. T o
show he r “good  faith,” she said she would pay the full $1,500 i mmediately
upon delivery of each of the first six rather than wait until she  had gotten
bookings or money for them. W alt, clearly with no room to ne gotiate and
ecstatic at having any of fer , pr omptly wrote back accepting. At the same
time he abandoned the Pantages project.