# Página 578  
If the evidence of W alt’ s transformation was his conservatism and the
lead-footed anim ations devoid of ener gy or menace, the change also
registered in his image in the pre ss. The young W alt Disney who m reporters
had loved to extol as democratic, informal, unselfconscious, self-ef facing,
and even  childish (though in rea lity he had long ceased being so) had been
supplanted by another W alt Disney who almost seemed to be carved in
granite l ike W as hington or Lincoln. This W alt Disney was a symbol of a
dif ferent side of postwar America from the one the W arners purveyed—not
so m uch plucky and emancipa ted as mature, decent, genial, solid, self-
confident, successful, responsible, and a bit complacent. He was a man
without vices, passions, or peccadilloes—the very personification of square
midwestern probity . In ef fect, just as Mickey Mouse’ s success had
converted Mickey from an imp to a logo of harmless happiness so that by
the late 1940s he had traded his  red shorts with their bright yellow buttons
for a suburbanit e’ s shirts and s lacks, W alt Disney’ s seeming success had
converted him from what he once jokingly called a “careless,
temperamental artist” to the country’ s favorite businessman. As one studio
veteran put it, “The late forties was the time when W alt Disney discovered
W alt Dis ney .” H e had been subs umed by his studio. Now he was beginning
to be subsumed by his new image.
Having succumbed to the change, it was almost as if he were searching
for the W alt Disney within him, the old human W alt Disney , when he
embarked in June 1947 on a visit to Goderich, Ontario, to which his
grandfather had come from Irela nd nearly a century earlier and in which his
father had been born. W alt and Elias had often talked of making this trip
together , but W alt had always be en busy and Elias had died. Now W alt flew
to New Y ork with Lillian, Lillian’ s sister Hazel, and Hazel’ s husband, Bill
Cottrell. In New Y ork they picked up a car and drove unhurrie dly through
Connecticut, Massachusetts, V ermont, New Hampshire, and M aine before
heading across the Canadian border to Montreal, T oronto, and then
Goderich. W ith his father ’ s first cousin, Peter Cantelon, he visited the
cemetery in nearby Holmesville where Disneys and Richardsons, W alt’ s
grandmother ’ s family , were bu ried and drove to a farm near Goderich
where the ruins of his great-grandfather Robert Richardson’ s log cabin
survived. It was in that cabin, he was told, that W alt’ s grandfather and