# Página 182  
to se rve as their distributor and freeze out Powers. Nat Levine, t he president
of Mascot Pictures, which spec ialized in serials, and a longtim e adviser to
the Disn eys, of f ered them $50,000 up front to bind an agreement. At the
same time W alt was in discussions with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and
expected them to deliver a draft contract, and the old V an Beure n animation
studio of fered to buy them outr ight. “If they [the cartoons] we ren’ t good,
and good paying propositions,”  Roy assured W alt, who had gone to New
Y ork in January to listen to of fer s, “they [distributors] would not be fighting
hard to take them away from us. W e never were in as good a pos ition before
to fight them as we are now .”  
There w as a reason the Disney s were conducting secret negotiations, and
the reas on was the chicanery of W alt’ s onetime savior , the genial Pat
Powers. As early as the prev ious fall, tensions had begun to surface
between W alt and Powers over the remittance of royalties from the
cartoons. Jack Cohn of Columb ia, believing that the dispute m ight explain
what he saw as t he inferior quality of the second Silly Symphon y , had even
ordered W alt to his of fice to d iscuss it. W alt insisted that rel ations were
good an d any hint to the contrar y was “absurd,” though he later complained
about C olumbia’ s own seeming  lassitude when it came to promoting the
Symphonies. That in turn prompted Powers to write him dar kly , just as
Mintz o nce had , that W alt had put him in an “embarrassing position” and
shown i ngratitude “after every distributor in the business had refused to
handle t he product under any kind of basis which would enable us to get
even the  cost of it back.” In fact, Powers said, he knew of no instance
“where they were even receptive or seriously considered handling the
product.”
If these insults weren’ t enough, tensions heightened considerably when
Powers repeatedly refused to give the Disneys a full accoun ting of the
money d ue them . Roy knew the re was a lot of money at stake, but when he
went to New Y ork to remonstrate and Powers still refused, he returned to
the s tudio and to ld W alt that Po wers was a “crook.”* W alt was suspicious