# Página 776  
the studio for t he comparison.) W alt, who was happily uns ophisticated
himself, sincerely enjoyed some of his studio’ s live-action films. He wrote
the manager of Radio City Mu sic Hall that he honestly felt The Absent
Minded Pr ofessor  w as “one of the  funniest comedies that ever came out of
this tow n,” and  director David Swift said that W alt broke down in tears
watching Pollyanna  in the sweatbox. Swift, who m ade the film, said he
personally “hate d it,” but when he told W alt that they would have to cut
twenty minutes out of the pi cture because it was running long, W alt
protested, “No, no, no, don’ t touch  it!”
On the other han d, W alt did not delude himself about the meaning of the
studio’ s new brand. “Our part i n things is to build along the l ines we are
known f or , with happy family stories and comedies,” he told Newsweek,
contradicting the  long-standing Disney position. “I’ve never thought of this
as a rt. It’ s part of show business.” T o an employee, he was more candid.
“W e’re making corn, Peter ,” he would tell matte artist Peter Ellenshaw . “I
know it’ s not your kind of corn, but it’ s got to be good corn. Let’ s make it
the best we possibly can. W e’re trying to please people.” As for the
increasingly mature competition in Hollywood that was tackling serious
issues, W alt turned philistine. “These avant garde artists are adolescents,”
he g riped to a reporter . “It’ s only a little noisy element that’ s goi ng that way ,
that’ s creating this sick art. I  don’ t think the whole world  is crazy!”
Referring to a r ecent film about alcoholism, Days of W ine and Roses,  he
said, “I don’ t w ant to see that kind of thing. If I did, I’d go down to the
county nut ward, or something.”
As Richard Schickel saw it, W alt Disney’ s live-action film s denied
mankind its “infinite possibilities” by “reducing it to comic clichés, by
imitating old imitations of life.” And so,” Schickel concluded, “he passed,
at la st, beyond—or beneath—cr iticism,” while at the same time serving as a
convenient bulw ark against those who criticized the motion picture industry
for excessive sex and violence. But it wasn’ t only the critics who felt W alt
Disney’ s films had sanitized art out. Bill Roberts, who wrote the original
screenplay for The Abs ent Min ded Pr ofessor ,  demanded that his name be
removed from the credits after reading Bill W alsh’ s revision. “I feel that wit
has been replaced by cuteness,”  Roberts wrote W alt angrily . “A lmost every