# Página 720  
As for Lillian, she knew W alt’ s priorities. “If it ever comes to a
showdown between his studio and his wife, Heaven help me!” she half-
joked to a repo rter . She was r ight, but at least she knew her only co-
respondent was the company or Disneyland. W alt was dif fident around most
women, and outside of the ink and paint department, which some used to
refer to as the N unnery , there were very few women on the lot.* Some of
his associates thought W alt didn’ t particularly like women. “He didn’ t trust
women or cats,” W ard Kimball  observed. “Almost all of his villains were
either w omen or  cats.” Marc Da vis agreed that W alt had a “great suspicion
of women” and was happiest working on masculine films like 20,000
Leagues  and The Gr eat Locomotive Chase.  But  Ha zel Geor ge took just the
opposite view , saying that W alt was “more at ease with women than he was
with me n” and that he felt “identification and camaraderie w ith women”
though the dif ference may have been that he was comfortable with strong,
no-nonsense women like Geor g e herself and Thelma and shy around the
others.
In an y c ase, however W alt felt about women, no one ever accus ed him of
infidelity or even of showing much interest in the opposite sex. Back when
he was absorbed by his animations, he told W ard Kimball, “I love Mickey
Mouse more than any woman I’ve ever known.” Now tha t W alt was
obsessed with his park, Ken A nderson recalled having a chicken dinner
with him  at the Plantation restaurant at Disneyland about a week before the
opening. It had gotten back to W alt that many of the men who had been
working down at the site away from their families for long str etches were
having w hat An derson called a “ wild time at nights.” W alt was incredulous.
“‘Y ou kn ow , Ken, I can’ t understand it. Some of these guys…’ h e was even
looking at me, he said, ‘…are majoring in women down here.’ He said,
‘Boy , I just can’ t understand that, Ken,’ he said. ‘It’ s like women were their
hobby .’ Y ou know . ‘This is my hobby .’” And he swept his arm s across the
expanse of Disneyland.
W ith Disneyland opened and W alt increasingly disillusioned with his
studio, h e and Lillian settled int o a routine. As he headed home from work
each day , his secretary would phone to alert Thelma and Lillian so dinner
would b e ready . (Lillian never cooked; if Thelma was of f, she and W alt