# Página 155  
protection since he had yet to complete his own sound film, though he was
among t hose who were going cr azy over noises, and he was scheduled to go
to New Y ork after Labor Day for the express purpose of meeting with sound
companies to determine how best to put a sound track on W illie.
He arrived on September 4 and immediately contacted his erstwhile
mentor and matchmaker , Jack Alicoate of Film Daily ,  who arranged
meetings for W alt with various sound companies—meetings tha t wound up
only confusing him with the variety of rates and the dif ferences in
technologies. After his rounds and after rejecting the idea of synchronized
recording disks, W alt all but dec ided to throw in his lot with Pat  A. Powers,
who was  licensi ng a sound-on-film system called Cinephone that generated
sound th rough optical impulses printed on the mar gin of the film, which
were then read by a sound head in the projector . But W alt was clearly in
uncharted territo ry and knew it. “I hope I have not stumbled,” he wrote Roy
and Iwe rks uncertainly , before ending with his typical morale-booster: “All
of you just hold your shirts on and believe me when I tell you that I think
we have got something good.”
Still in many ways a naïf, W alt  had placed his faith and his fa te in the
hands of  Powers, whose bonhomie had proven irresistible to more hardened
men than the young animator . P owers was the very image of an Irish cop,
which was what he had once be en many years before. At fifty- nine he was
tall and broad-s houldered with a square cleft chin, a wide nose, dancing
eyes, thi ck brows, a bush of hair , a glad hand, and a welcoming  smile. W alt
called him a “[b ]ig lovable friendly Irishman” and said, “Y ou c ouldn’ t help
but like him.” T o Roy and Iwerks he wrote that Powers was a “good natured
cuss” who was “always in a good mood.” But this bonhomie was deceptive.
For all his outward af fability , Powers was also one of the most notoriously
belligerent figures in the entire history of the motion picture industry . Born
in Buf falo, New Y ork, he worked as a policeman, a foundryman, and a
union or ganizer before contract ing to sell phonographs in sub urban New
Y ork Cit y and eventually formin g a small studio to produce motion pictures
when films were just beginning to boom early in the twentieth century .
When Universal Pictures was formed, Powers became a partner , quickly
schemed to force out two othe r partners, and then had a falling out with