# Página 392  
Snow White  had been a long, deliberate lab or of trial and error , but it was
sui generis; it p rovided little guidance in making features o n a regular
schedule, which  was what the studio needed to do now . By W alt’ s own
admission, the two years after Snow White  wer e “years of confusion, swift
expansion, reor ganization.” And he described the training of the new
recruits as being “fitted into a machine for the manufacture of en tertainment
which had become bewilderingly complex”—a far cry from the heady ,
messy , lurching collaboration on Snow White.  A s he would l ater tell his
employees, “The  only way to have a [commanding] position in  the field is
to have an or ganization so that there will be no weak sisters coming from
the p lant.” But f or all W alt’ s ea rlier fitful attempts to routinize the process
of anima tion an d for all the increasing specialization, the studi o had never
really been a machine. Now he had to try to make it one.
The transformat ion was reflected in a proposed change in the company’ s
name th at year . Roy had decided to consolidate the various Disney entities
—the studio, the merchandise division, and a real estate investment arm that
the brothers had formed in the early 1930s called Liled Realty after their
wives, Lillian and Edna—under the banner “W alt Disney Enterprises.”
While the new name may have sounded more formal and majestic than W alt
Disney Productions, it also ignited a firestorm of protest within the
company . Critics char ged, in Roy’ s words, that W alt Disney Productions
“sounds less like a billion dolla r project—world-wide enterprise with a lot
of mone y and power ,” than the proposed name did, and that W alt Disney
Enterprises might give the public the wrong impression, perhaps that the
Disney studio had gone corporate. In the end Roy capitulated, but the
incident nevertheless indicated a new tone and direction at the studio.
That May the studio saw a more direct and dramatic example  of its own
swelling status and corporatization. Embarking on an ambitious feature
program with his newly enlar ged staf f, W alt realized that he needed new
facilities. At first he decided to erect a new building for the sh orts unit on
Hyperion, acros s the street from the main studio, but as he mul led the idea
one wee kend an d went over th e plans with his chief engineer  Bill Garity
and a contractor named Frank Crowhurst, he suddenly changed his mind.