# Página 830  
The nati on mour ned him. “All o f it, everything W alt Disney put  his hand
to, conju res up a sense of innocent, skipping gaiety and childlike curiosity;
his achie vements epitomize wha t is called ‘good, clean, American fun’ that
need be neither dull nor dour ,” The New  Y ork T imes  edit orialized. “That is
what W alt Disney gave to us and the world, and it is all summed up in that
friendly engaging mouse named Mickey . It was not a small bequest.” The
Los Angeles T imes  eulogized him as an “Aesop w ith a magic brush, [Hans
Christian] Andersen with a color camera, Barrie, Carroll, Grahame,
Prokofief f, Harr is—with a genius touch that brought to life th e creations
they had invented.” “One won ders how a greater legacy will ever be
accumulated by  one person,” it closed. Citing the throngs still going
through Disneyl and and lining u p outside the Radio City Music  Hall to see
Follow Me, Boys!, T ime  in a full-page obituary opined that “Disney was
dead, but not h is vision of inn ocence, not the dreams he made.” In Los
Angeles county supervisors ordered flags to be flown at half-staf f.
He had changed  the world. He had created a new art form and then
produced several indisputable classics within it—films that, even  when they
had not found a n audience or been profitable on first release, h ad, as W alt
predicted, become profitable upon reissue. He had provided escape from the
Depression, stre ngth during war , and reassurance afterward, and he had
shown generations of children how to accept responsibility while at the
same tim e allowing them to ven t vicariously their antagonisms toward the
adult world they would soon e nter . He had refined traditional values and
sharpened Amer ican myths and archetypes, even if, as his detr actors said,
he may have also gutted them. And from another vantage point, he had
reinforced Ame rican iconoclas m, communitarianism, and to lerance and
helped m old a countercultural generation. He had advanced color films and
then color television. He had rei magined the amusement park, and in doing
so he had altered American consciousness, for better or worse, so that his
countrymen would prefer wis h fulfillment to reality , the faux to the
authentic. He had encouraged and popularized conservation, space
exploration, atomic ener gy , urban planning, and a deeper historical
awareness. He had built one of the most powerful empires in the
entertainment w orld—one that would, despite his fears, long survive him.
And because his films were so popular overseas, he had helped establish