# Página 280  
Despite the occasional griping a nd resentment that W alt was overbearing,
mercurial, ungrateful, and impossible to please, all of which he was, no one
at the studio dou bted the overriding importance of his contribution, though
everyone seemed to have a dif ferent opinion of what that contribution was.
One thin g on which everyone di d agree was that he was a superb  storyteller ,
and W alt himself seemed to thi nk it was his primary attribute.  “Of all the
things I’ve ever done,” he once told an interviewer , “I’d like to be
remembered as a storyteller .” F rom the earliest days he had a knack for
constructing gag s. Dick Huemer believed W alt had the “best gag mind I
ever ran across.” But as the stories became more elaborate, linking the gags
or ganically and situating them in the idiosyncrasies of character , W alt really
shone. V eteran director Ken An nakin, who worked with W alt years later ,
said, “Of all the studio chiefs I have ever worked with I have never known
anyone who operated at [story] conferences so magnificently a s W alt. Y ou
would g o into a story session w ith him, full of great ideas, and he would
scratch his nose and say , ‘This is just from the top of my head, but I think
we shou ld do this and this….’ And it would usually be like li stening to a
new fair y tale, and we would b reak up the session happy and amazed that
the solution to your story problems should be so simple and dif ferent.”
Though the stories no longer originated with W alt, every story still
ultimately had to meet with his approval before it was put into production.
The stor ymen “would do a rough outline and send the idea up to W alt…and
he’d either say , ‘Go ahead with  it’ or ‘No, you guys get over on that other
thing. I think it has more possi bilities,’” recalled W ard Kimba ll. But even
after he  granted his initial approval and the storymen provid ed a rough
storyboard for him to critique and they incorporated his criticisms into a
final sto ryboard, W alt would always return to the plot and gags at what
were, typically , lengthy story se ssions, looking for ways to im prove them.
“And he  would be the leader in all those story meetings,” Kimball attested.
Indeed, some even said that W alt was the one who really wrote all the
dialogue.
Of c ourse, first there was that dreaded silence when W alt wo uld listen
and stare fixedly and inscrutab ly . “W alt was always very pre occupied in
story m eetings, thinking up new ideas for stories and characters,” Ollie