# Página 551  
And even as he  held those discussions, W alt openly fretted that Leahy ,
while at  Paramount and MGM, had been “just another rubber stamp,”
signing of f on w hatever produc ers had wanted, and he began to doubt as
well wh ether Jack Reeder could adjust from the culture of an advertising
firm to the very dif ferent culture of a motion picture studio, es pecially the
Disney studio. As for the new management committee, W alt never attended
a single meeting, believing that its role was to handle routine matters only ,
not general policy , which was his and Roy’ s domain. In fact, Roy stopped
attending meetings too.*
The lines of com munication and command, always so tangled,  were no
straighter under the reor ganization plan. W alt had first told executives Harry
T ytle an d Hal Adelquist that th e hiring of Leahy would have no ef fect on
them; then that t hey were to report to Leahy on management matters but to
W alt on all cre ative matters; then that they were to report to Leahy
exclusively . But no sooner had Reeder and Leahy tried to exercise their
authority than strains developed between W alt and his new management
team. When W alt demanded tha t some of the secondary management sit in
on deliberations about salaries, because he wanted to resist pressures to
limit salaries or institute waiting periods for raises, they quarreled, and
when the committee declared itself too busy to discuss individual merit
raises, t hey also quarreled. They quarreled again in April when the
committee, enforcing the new push for increased productivity , tried laying
out t erms of production. W alt ex ploded at what he considered a n arrogation
of p ower . He sa id that he  was  in char ge of production and no one else—
even tho ugh Reeder and Leahy had been hired to help shepherd production
—and a ccording to one attendee, he stated and restated this “not once but
six or seven times.” He also i nsisted that he and Roy were running the
company , “the Board of Directo rs notwithstanding,” and that if he wasn’ t
permitted to control production,  he was going to quit. “Life is too short,” he
told them.
But Reeder and Leahy still didn’ t seem to get the message that this was
W alt Disney’ s studio, not theirs.  That August, Reeder prepared a report for
W alt on the state of the studio. (In the past W alt wouldn’ t have needed a
report; h e would  have known.) Reeder , citing the ur gent need to cut costs