# Página 250  
little son g should be inserted. Frank Churchill, who was now the studio
composer , imme diately began pounding out a tune on the piano. T ed Sears
provided a couplet, and when he ran out of lyrics, Pinto Colvig, the
storyman and voice artist, imp rovised a whistle to complete the musical
line. Lat er two freelance singers  were hired for a one-day recording session
at ten dollars ap iece, and “Who’ s Afraid of the Big Bad W olf?” began its
march on musical history .
W alt, always notoriously dissatisfied with anything the studio produced,
pronounced himself happy with Pigs.  “A t last we have achieved true
personality in a whole picture !” he was said to have written Roy after
seeing it . Roy , who was at the time in New Y ork meeting with  UA on the
contract extension, relayed W alt’ s enthusiasm to the distributor ’ s salesmen.
But whe n they screened the film themselves, they complained t hat it was a
“cheater ,” meaning the studio had cheated them because Pigs  had fewer
characters than the previous Si lly Symphony , Father Noah’ s Ark.  It took
UA pub licist Ha l Horne to defend the film as “the greatest thing W alt’ s ever
done.”
Audiences seem ed to agree with Horne’ s assessment. Even at the very
first preview , Dick Lundy recalled, moviegoers left whistling “Who’ s
Afraid of the B ig Bad W olf?” The film had been open only a short time
when th e song began sweeping the nation—not just a musical phenomenon
but a  cultural on e that played incessantly . “[Y]ou cannot escape,” New Y ork
Herald T ribune  film critic Richard W atts, Jr ., complained.
It bursts out at you in almost every film theater; the radio hurls it in
your direction; try to escape from it by adjourning to a speakeasy and
some unfortunate alcoholic will begin to sing it at you; you pick up a
paper for relief and you will find it shrieking out at you in a cartoon on
the editorial page. At teas, otherwise harmless men and women will
suddenly burst, either coyly or determinedly , into its unceasing strains
or its coy lyrics. Go to the theater and you will find it played by the
orchestra in the intermission, while the handsomely clad men and