# Página 44  
But abov e all one could see it in  his temper . It had always been volcanic.
Even back in Chicago Elias would send Roy to his room for some
infraction, then head for the app le tree in the backyard, cut of f a  branch for
a switch, and lay into the boy . “Y ou had to take your pants down and get a
switching,” Roy said. “That was Dad. He’d give us impulsive whacks.”
W alt called Elias’ s temper “violent” and said that you could not ar gue with
him with out braving his wrath. Even Ruth, who would always  defend her
father , a cknowledged that “he did have a temper” but said “he m ade up for
it in all other ways.”
Y et however irascible Elias had been before Kansas City , he seemed to be
angrier after the move, after another disappointment, and W alt, at least in
his own view , became the main tar get of his father ’ s ire—in par t because he
was so dif ferent from his father . Indeed, as he grew up, W alt Disney was the
antithesis of Elias Disney , almo st as if he had willed himself to  be so as a
form of rebellio n, which he ver y well might have done. Wher e Elias was
dour , W a lt, despite his perceived hardships and complaints, was blithe. “He
was full  of clowning,” Roy recalled. “He was very lighthearted all the time.
V ery full of fun  and gaiety .” He loved to pull pranks, especially on his
father . Once he sent away for a rubber bladder that he placed under his
father ’ s dinner plate, then had Flora squeeze a concealed bulb. The other
Disneys buckled in hysterics as the plate rose and fell, but Elias  kept eating
his soup , oblivi ous. (W alt did say that even though his father was “very
slow to catch on to a gag,” when he did, “he would laugh until he had tears
in his eyes.”) W alt also enjoyed masquerading, and a cousin remembered a
visit to Kansas City when W alt’ s “chief delight was in dressing up in odd
clothes in order to scare my sister and brother .” On another occasion Flora
answered the door to find a ta ll woman who asked her “a lot of foolish
questions.” It took a few moments for Flora to recognize that th e “woman”
was wearing one of Flora’ s own best dresses. W alt had even borrowed a wig
and hat and put on makeup to complete the disguise.
It was not only  W alt’ s puckishness that contrasted with his father ’ s
severity . Where  Elias was plodding and subdued, W alt was wildly
enthusiastic—“enthused about everything,” said a friend. Even Elias
conceded of W alt that “[w]hate ver he wanted to do he did w ithout ever