# Página 137  
harried streetcar conductor who must cope with everything from a
recalcitrant cow blocking the tracks to an ornery goat who butts the car and
sends it careering of f the path, the reception had improved. “I am the
LUCKY  rabbit,” Universal announced brightly in its promotional materials.
“I’m the animule Universal discovered after two years’ experimentation and
preparation see king the Krazy Kartoon Knockout that would set the
industry on its rabbit ears.” Th ough it was puf fery—W alt had worked on
Oswald for roughly two week s, not two years—it was not much of an
exaggeration, given the initial enthusiasm for the series in the trade press.
“Oswald looks like a real contender ,” Film Daily  gushed. “Funny how
cartoon artists never hit on a rab bit before. Oswald with his lon g ears has a
chance for a lot of new comedy gags, and makes the most of them.” “This
series is destined to win much popular favor ,” Motion Pictur e News
concurred. “The y are clearly drawn, well-executed, brimful of action and
fairly ab ounding in humorous situations.” Motion Pictur e W orld  cited W alt
by name for ma king his creations “simulate the gestures and expressions of
human beings.” Of the third in the series, Oh, T eacher ,  t he sam e public ation
said, “It contains some of the best gags we have ever seen in cartoons.”
T o a lar ge degree, this praise w as less a reflection of W alt’ s creativity
than of the rathe r low state of animation in the mid -1920 s, w hen even cru de
gags and broadly drawn characters could seem inventive against the
shapeless gags and barely draw n characters of most cartoons. Y et some
animation historians do cre dit Oswald as an advance over his
contemporaries in more substan tial respects. One compared the rabbit to
silent-film come dian Buster Keaton in his ability to “transform the absurd
mechanical environment of the  modern world into something useful and
humane,” and also cited numerous instances of phallic imagery—Oswald’ s
straightening and collapsing ears, for example—that testified to his
libidinous nature, something that had not been explored previously in
cartoons. T wo other historians distinguished Oswald from his predecessor ,
Julius the Cat, by noting both that Oswald was far more cons cious of his
body than Julius, more capable o f enjoying pleasure and suf fering pain, and
that his  body was far more  plastic than Julius’ s, more stretchable,
squeezable, and twistable, leading to more imaginative situations. Even in
the 1920s some rival animators regarded the Oswalds as the industry