# Página 792  
Iwerks to spend $250,000 to purchase the rights to a special traveling matte
process that would better com bine the live actors with th e cartoons
—“chickenfeed,” he called the money—the live footage had not always
been pla nned to accommodate the animation.* One reason was that W alt
would often spring new ideas on the staf f. For the song “Jolly Holiday ,” the
Sherman brothe rs had decided that one of the choruses would be sung by
waiters harmonizing as a barbershop quartet. W alt mused that waiters had
always r eminded him of penguins and suggested that the waiter s should be
animated penguins, which necessitated a wholesale revision. As Frank
Thomas and Ollie Johnston wro te, “The animator would fuss an d complain
and call a few names, but in the  end he would become more inventive and
more en tertaining than he would have been if everything had  been made
easy for  him. No animator ever would back away from such a  challenge,”
and, they said, “W alt knew that, too.”
Moreover , every one seemed to k now that the film was special. Even at a
rough screening  at the studio  for the sales force before the score or
animation had been added, W alt reported to Bill Anderson that the reaction
was “terrific,” though W alt was still so afraid that he might be deluding
himself that he a sked a longtime exhibitor to see it. The exhibito r confirmed
W alt’ s enthusia sm. At the premiere at Grauman’ s Chinese Theater in
August 1964, a benefit for CalArts, the audience stood and cheered. “Y ou
have ma de a great many picture s, W alt, that have touched the hearts of the
world,” producer Sam Goldwyn, who had discussed a Poppins
collaboration with W alt in the early 1950s, wrote him after seeing the film,
“but you  have never made one so wonderful, so magical, so joyous, so
completely the fulfillment of eve rything a great motion picture should be as
MAR Y POPPINS. ” Goldwyn’ s was the general sentiment: Mary Poppins
ranked w ith W a lt Disney’ s very best films. Even Pamela T ravers, who had
caused W alt so much grief, c ame to Los Angeles to see the film and
pronounced hers elf happy . “The whole picture is a splendid spe ctacle,” she
wrote W alt, “an d I admire you for perceiving in Julie Andrew s an actress
who could play the part,” praising Andrews’ s “understated” performance.
She closed, “Y ours, with a bou quet of flowers.” (Still, for ye ars T ravers