# Página 457  
would be no Rockefeller . The D isneys financed the film through their usual
loans, but they hired a young  film salesman named Irving Ludwig to
arrange the distribution of the first-run exhibition in eleven cities.
The problems with RKO, howe ver , were a harbinger of things to come.
At the very time  they were quar reling with RKO about releasing Fantasia,
Roy and W alt were also in n egotiations with the company  for a new
contract. The previous December , RKO executive M. H. A ylesworth had
written W alt a letter promising a “bang-up financing program” and joking
that as long as W alt continued to work, “Roy and Gunnie [Less ing] have a
living b ut if you lay of f God knows what any of us will d o.” By the
summer , however , the sides were still trading terms, and United Artists,
W arner Bros., Paramount, and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer were all wooing the
Disneys. Despit e RKO’ s misgivings about Fantasia —as late as July , RKO
publicist Hal Horne was having second thoughts about the title as too
upscale—they wanted to keep the Disneys and of fered terms that allowed
RKO to recoup the cost of print s, advertising, and promotion from the first
proceeds but prevented them f rom collecting their distributio n fee, 22.5
percent i n the United States and Great Britain and 27.5 percent in the rest of
the w orld, until the Disneys had recouped the negative costs of making the
films, th us giving RKO a further incentive to promote the picture. Roy
reluctantly agreed, saying that  while he didn’ t trust any distributor , he
trusted R KO mo re than the others. But even as he closed the deal, he had
already begun contemplating distributing their films themselves, just as
they were doing on the first run of Fantasia.
For Fantasia  the Disneys had secured a year ’ s lease on the two-thousand-
seat Bro adway T heater at Fifty-third Street in New Y ork, the same theater ,
then named the Colony , where Mickey Mouse had premiered twelve years
earlier , and they had W illiam Garity , the studio engineer , refurbish the
theater for the Fantasound system. (The equipment weighed more than
seven th ousand pounds and, true to Disney form, took over a week of crews
working round the clock to install.) After being hospitalized f or two days
with a severe cold, W alt himself left for the New Y ork p remiere on
November 1 with Lillian, Ham Luske, and Bill Cottrell, taking a
roundabout route via New Orleans and Atlanta, where he s aid he was