# Página 289  
disappointment,” he wrote, “should the deal fall through.” When Paramount
decided to put a live-action Alice  f ilm  int o produ ction, W alt abandoned his
plans with Pickford, prompting her to lament that “your apparent lack of
enthusiasm on our last meeting, together with the many obstacles you
seemed to anticipate was the crushing blow to my cherished hope.”
In re ality , that s ame week in M ay 1933 when he was exchangi ng letters
with Pickford, which also happe ned to be the week that Pigs  opened, W alt
had already settled on his feature and had apparently instructed Al
Lichtman of United Artists to register the title: Snow White.  W alt would
later say he had chosen the material on the grounds of its aesthetic potential.
“[I]t was  well-kn own and I knew  I could do something with seven ‘screwy’
dwarfs,” he said. Another time, enumerating the elements of the story , he
said, “I had sympathetic dwarfs , you see? I had the heavy , I had the prince.
And the  girl. The romance.” Bu t the story also of fered the lure of memory .
W alt sai d he could remember se eing a Snow White  play when he was a boy ,
though he was probably recalling a film version of the play starring
Mar guerite Clar k that screened on January 27 and January 28, 1917, in the
cavernous twelve-thousand-seat Kansas City Convention Hall when he was
fifteen. The Kansas City Star  had  sponsored five screenings to reward its
newsboys, and 67,000 of them showed up. T o accommodate the  crowds, the
film was projected simultaneously on four screens arranged at right angles
to one another in a kind of box. Because the projectors were hand-cranked
and because the projectionists couldn’ t maintain perfect sync hronization,
W alt, se ated hig h in the gallery , said that he could see on one screen what
was going to h appen on the a djacent one, which made the show seem
somehow even more magical. W riting to Frank Newman, for whom W alt
had made the Laugh-O-grams in Kansas City , he said, “My impression of
the p icture has s tayed with me t hrough the years and I know it p layed a big
part in selecting SNOW WHITE  for my first feature production.”
But if he cited the aesthetic elements of the material and its app eal from
his c hildhood as the reasons fo r choosing Snow White,  he may also have
had deep-seated psychological reasons. Snow White  had nearly all the
narrative features—the tyrannical parent, the sentence of drudgery , the
promise of a childhood utopia—and incorporated nearly all the major