# Página 116  
But W alt, who had very little executive talent or inclination, was never as
interested in building an opera tion or running a business as  he was in
improving the product, not onl y as a way of satisfying W inkler , though
obviously this was a consideration, but also as a matter of personal pride
and psychologic al need. He sincerely wanted to make good animations,
sincerely wante d to be counted  among the best at his craft. As it was,
W inkler seemed  mollified by the next Alice, Alice’ s Spooky Adventur e,
calling it the “best you have turned out” and telling W alt that on the strength
of it she was abl e to make deals  for the series from southern New Jersey to
the D istrict of Columbia. But W alt, continuing to apologize for the quality
of h is cartoons, insisted he could make them better , saying that he had
invited professio nal critics to h is previews and that he was trying to be a
“little di f ferent from the usual run of slap stick and hold them [the films]
more to a dignified line of comedy .” On receipt of his fourth film, Alice’ s
W ild W est Show ,  W inkler wired: “if none of the  future ones are any worse
we will have the leading single reel of the film market.”
She was so well satisfied that early in June, when W inkler mad e her first
visit from New Y ork to Disney B ros., she discussed expediting the schedule
to two films a month. Already by this time W alt had been hec toring Ubbe
Iwwerks to leave the Film Ad Co., where he still made onl y forty-five
dollars a week a nd complained of run-ins with Cauger ’ s relative s, and come
help him in Hollywood; but the  invitations gained a certain u r gency with
the new  impending workload, since W alt still had only Hamilton helping
him wi th the animation. At just about the time W inkler arrived in
California, Iwwerks finally agreed to W alt’ s proposition. “Bo y , you will
never re gret it,” W alt wrote him eagerly , using California as an enticement.
“[T]his is the place for you—a real country to work and play in.”
Accompanied by his mother , Iwwerks made the trip from Kansas City to
Los Angeles in seven days—W alt had arranged for him to drive V ir ginia
Davis’ s father ’ s big roadster , which Mr . Davis had left back home—and
arrived just before July 1, when  he was put on the payroll at forty dollars a
week—a cut he was willing to take to get away from Cauger .
Little ha d chang ed about Iwwerks since W alt had first met him f ive years
earlier , except his name; he had anglicized it from “Ubbe Iwwerks” to “Ub