# Página 589  
Y et by 1947 he could give more, and he did. The invitation that the MP A
had tendered to Congress back  in 1944 had finally been accepted. W ith
Congress coming under Republican control after the 1946 midterm
elections, the House Un-Am erican Activities Committee (HUAC)
announced that it was going to  investigate Hollywood, and in September
1947 it issued s ubpoenas to nineteen so-called “unfriendly” wi tnesses (the
term was actually the Hollywood Reporter ’ s) and twenty-six “friendlies.”*
Among those “friendlies” was W alt Disney , the quintessentially American
face of Hollyw ood. W alt wasn’ t a passive recipient. He was firmly
entrenched now with the professional red-baiters on the Hollywood right—
McGuinness, Hu ghes, W ood and actors like Adolphe Menjou, W ard Bond,
and Robert T aylor . Throughou t the year he continued to attend MP A
meetings and meet with fellow c onservatives like Geor ge Murphy and with
the staf f  of HUAC. He even ha d Gunther Lessing submit questions to the
committee that he thought he should be asked. Then on October 18 he left
for New Y ork for a brief stay to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of
Mickey Mouse at a dinner befo re heading to W ashington for the hearings.
The juxtaposition of the celebration with the testimony showed what a long
twenty years it had been. He ha d gone from iconoclast to gua rdian of the
social order .
He arriv ed at the less-than-packed House Caucus Room on Capitol Hill
on the afternoon  of October 24, 1947, in a sober gray flannel suit, albeit
with a loud tie, his ordinarily wild hair plastered to his hea d, the first
witness of that session on the second day of the hearings. (A ctors Gary
Cooper and Ronald Reagan, among others, had testified the first day , when
the Caucus Room had been ja mmed.) After preliminary inquiries about
W alt’ s b ackground in the film industry and his producing propaganda
during t he war , committee co-c ounsel H. A. Smith asked the big question:
were there any Communists or fascists at his studio? No, W alt asserted in
his soft, flat, nasally midwestern voice, “I feel that everybody in my studio
is 100 percent A merican.” But had  t here been Communists at the s tudio in
the past? Y es, W alt answered, and proceeded to tell the story of how union
chief Herbert Sorrell strong-arm ed the studio into the strike, even though,
he s aid, his emp loyees, whom Sorrell claimed to be representing, actually