# Página 177  
Carthay Circle and the Roxy , Giegerich was able to conclude a distribution
agreement with Columbia—one Symphony each month for a $5,000
advance. (It was a testament to just how successful The Skeleton Dance  was
and to the Dis neys’ growing reputation that Columbia made the of fer
without seeing another Symphon y because there was no other Symphony to
show .) S ince Powers had already sold the foreign rights for $3,500, the
Disneys would be receiving $8,500 for each cartoon, less the  10 percent
commission to Powers and less other expenses like negatives, advertising,
and the sound royalty . The deal also called for a sixty-five–thirty-five split
of profits favoring Powers until all costs were repaid and a fifty-fifty split
thereafter . Roy calculated that  the actual studio receipts a fter all the
deductions were roughly $6,00 0 per cartoon, which he admitted wasn’ t
exceptional, but it was regular , a nd “even $6,000 net—for certain every few
weeks for a year will be a big help towards establishing ourselves firmly .”  
But sur vival wasn’ t what young W alt Disney had in mind. After his
problems at Laugh-O-Gram and with Mintz, he wanted domination—
domination that would make his position unassailable. That fall, with the
Columbia deal signed and a stea dy cash flow assured, and with  most of his
rivals re eling, h e concentrated on a new objective in his lar ger quest to
become the animation overlord : he was determined that Mickey Mouse
would supplant Felix the Cat. Felix, a thick black cat with oval eyes, pointy
ears, an d an expressive tail, had long been the reigning cartoon star , not
only in America but around th e world. There was a Felix song, a Felix
comic strip, Felix books, dolls, pencils, and figurines, even Felix cigars.
When R CA dem onstrated its new television system in the summer of 1928,
a twelve -inch p apier -mâché Fe lix figure was the first image transmitted.
The best tribute to his popularity , however , may have been the fact that over
the year s he had given rise to at least a half-dozen imitations, including
Mintz’ s Krazy Kat and W alt’ s own Julius.
But Felix’ s creator , the unpredictable Pat Sullivan, had none of W alt
Disney’ s drive or foresight. When his distributor pressed him to convert