# Página 721  
would go to the  T am O’Shanter or the Brown Derby .) When he arrived, he
and Lillian usually had a cocktail together before sitting down  for dinner ,
invariably in front of the television set. While the girls were st ill home, he
usually watched just the news. After they left he became less
discriminating. “ He looked at everything,” Lillian would recall. “W e’d get a
lousy program and I’d say , ‘Do you want me to change it?’ ‘No, no, I just
want to study it,’ he’d say . I’d g et annoyed and go upstairs and let him keep
watching it. He was the same with pictures. I’d say , ‘That one had a bad
review .’ ‘I don’ t care,’ he’d say . ‘I want to see what the dir ector did.’”
When it came to his own p rograms, he was especially riveted and
demanded that Lillian be riveted too. “Every time I would take a mouthful
of f ood,” she remembered, “he would look over and say , ‘Y ou’re not
looking.’” He had also had a w ide-screen Cinemascope projection system
installed at the house to view movies, but he stopped bringing home the
studio’ s films because, he told  his secretary , Lillian and Th elma didn’ t
laugh loudly enough.
Since the Disneys seldom socialized and since W alt was no longer racing
back to the stud io at night as he used to do, their evenings us ually ended
early . W alt was in bed by nine or ten o’clock. But just as he hummed with
nervous ener gy during the day , he was often restless in bed, espe cially when
he was working on a project. Lil lian said that he would sometimes get up in
the midd le of the night and stan d at his dressing table talking to himself or
sketching or reading a script the re, because his old polo injury had made it
uncomfortable for him to sit without hunching over .
Given L illian’ s snippiness, he still was often exiled, or exiled himself, to
the s tudio or to his apartment at Disneyland. Sometimes it was a matter of
work. An employee remember ed seeing W alt at the studio one evening
because, W alt said, Lillian “wou ldn’ t get of f his back,” and he had a script
to read before a meeting the n ext morning. Other times it w as Lillian’ s
temper that sent him away . Ev en before Disneyland opened, he earned
Lillian’ s wrath when he dissuaded her from attending the 1954 Oscar
ceremonies with  him because he  was sure he wouldn’ t win and then wound
up with four sta tuettes. He decided to spend the night at the studio. On yet
another occasio n Lillian erupted when W alt rehired her niece, Phyllis