# Página 675  
which was critical. W alt Disney had not only conquered television as he had
conquered the screen; he was being credited with using the new medium to
bring Am erica together . He was the country’ s great national uncle, “Uncle
W alt,” as some took to calling him.
W alt was now consciously fo stering that image. Though he always
claimed to be terrified about performing onscreen, no doubt sincerely , ABC
wanted him on the programs as  a host, apparently to provide them with an
identity . That May , W alt reluctan tly agreed to appear on not more than three
programs each year and on commercials, subject to his “reasonable
approval.” At a meeting two weeks later , after he had already filmed the
first introduction—he would introduce the program in a wood-paneled
mock-up of his of fice—he conc eded to appear more frequently . W alt was
extremely self-deprecating about his performances. He said he didn’ t
consider himself  an actor , that he had a bad voice with a “nasal twang,” and
that he had gott en “stumped” in worrying “about being in too m uch of it,”
meaning the show . On the other hand, he said, he was always himself,
which “will be the gimmick,” a nd he realized, whether he liked it or not,
that his participa tion was probably necessary to get the show of f the ground
before he and the production staf f could establish other personalities. “Got
to be an M.C. to get it going,”  he told his staf f. “W e’ve been selling the
name and the personality .”
W alt ma y have been “scared to death,” as he later said, and he may have
frequently fumbled the scripts, garbling words or tripping over them and
requiring repeated takes, but for all his demurrals, he seemed rather to like
the chance to create a television  persona. At nearly 190 pounds on his five-
foot, ten -inch fr ame, he was hu skier now than he had ever been, fleshier ,
and at fifty-two he had finally lo st the ferret-faced intensity of h is youth and
had physically grown into the imposing postwar corporate figure that was
being depicted in the media. As  his creations conveyed reassurance, so did
the man. He was calm, modest, unprepossessing, homespun, curious,
charming, and of course, avuncular—the perfect guest to have in one’ s
living room each week.