# Página 312  
you cou ld have the same animators drawing the same charac ters in each
scene and hope that the scene itself would maintain its integrity and that the
individual draw ings would relate to one another . Oddly enough, as
important a question as this was, W alt never satisfactorily resolved it,
creating a good deal more confusion and chaos than the hierarchy would
have suggested, since some anim ators sought to follow their cha racter from
scene to scene while others worked on entire scenes.
And to this cha os was added one more crisis just as they embarked on
animation early in 1936. For all the recruiting and all the training, the studio
simply did not have enough animators to do the grunt work of in-
betweening and cleaning up, much less the secondary animation. They
needed animato rs, and they needed them very quickly . By o ne account,
W alt cal led in Don Graham and said, “I need 300 artists—get them.” By
this time Sharpsteen, with his obligations on Snow White,  had  bee n reliev ed
of overseeing the training program. (He later made a point of saying that
W alt never thanked him for what he had done.) In his p lace was a
screaming hatch et-faced martinet named Geor ge Drake whom Sharpsteen
had orig inally br ought into the s tudio as an in-betweener and wh om he then
assigned to supervise in-betweeners-in-training while Sharpsteen himself
broke in the gre enhorns. (Drake was widely believed to be S harpsteen’ s
brother -in-law , which was a source of his authority , though he was only a
distant relative and no real friend.)
W ith their seemingly impossible  assignment, Drake and Graham left for
New Y ork that March and set themselves up in a seven-room suite in the
RKO Building that M. H. A yle sworth, RKO’ s chairman, had secured for
them at the last minute. By plac ing ads in New Y ork papers, they attracted
would-be anima tors for what amounted to a trial course, though Drake and
Graham were so discriminatin g that out of the seven hundred initial
applicants they chose only thirty-two, thus underenrolling their courses.
W alt wro te back suggesting not that they compromise their stand ards—W alt
would n ever have advised that—but that they stay longer , whi ch they did.
When th e missio n ended, on July 1, it had cost the studio $15,000 and had
provided many fewer than the hundreds W alt had wanted, while incurring
some resentmen t at the studio among the young animators al ready there.