# Página 727  
the product of i ts own stringent economies. “The big change, ” said Faith
Hubley , John’ s wife and an animator in her own right, speaking of the
dif ference between UP A and Disney , “was that we figured out how to make
films in  a very small space. It’ s as simple as that—personal films—that
required half a dozen people.” UP A animations had less movement than
Disney’ s, less detail, less refinem ent. “I am a bit of a slob,” Hubley added,
“and I like a free-flowing line and texture…. That was our contribution…to
liberate animation from itself, and to go to watercolors and to paint pastels.”
Expediency became style. The result was a series of popular cartoons
featuring a myopic old man named Mr . Magoo and then a br eakthrough,
Gerald McBoing Boing,  based on a phonograph record by Theodore Geisel,
known p rofessionally as Dr . Seuss, about a young boy who can speak no
words, o nly sound ef fects, and w ho suf fers as a result until he is  rescued by
the m anager of a  radio station who can use Gerald’ s talents. T ime  predicted
that Ger ald’ s “b oing!” “may prove as resounding as the first peep out of
Mickey Mouse.”
McBoing Boing  did  become a  milestone. Not only did it win the
Academy A ward for Best Animated Short Subject of 1950, an award that
Disney r outinely won in the 1930s; it drew the sort of critical hosannas that
had once been reserved for Disney animation. W ith McBoing Boing  and
Magoo, realism was of ficially passé. Minimalism was in. So was the arch
attitude of the UP A cartoons. A critic, writing in 1953 and comparing
Disney’ s Peter Pan  t o UP A ’ s Mr . Magoo, noted that a “new cult is forming;
a new word is perhaps already being minted, Magooism,  describing
benevolent nearsightedness.” He concluded that Mickey Mouse and Donald
Duck ha d lost their popularity because they were creations of the 1930s, a
time wh en audiences enjoyed their anarchism, while Magoo had become
popular in the postwar period, when people understood the awf ul results of
irresponsibility . “Mr . Magoo r epresents for us the man who would be
responsible and serious in a wo rld that seems insane,” the critic observed;
“he is a creation of the 1950s, the age of anxiety; his situation reflects our
own.” O f course, there was a much simpler explanation for UP A ’ s critical
favor: its animations seemed more adult than Disney’ s, more highbrow .