# Página 252  
not, Pigs,  like W illie  before it, was widely regarded as a signal achievement
in a nimation. “I realized something was happening there that hadn’ t
happened before,” animator C huck Jones said of the ef fect of Pigs.  It
demonstrated th at “it wasn’ t how  a character looked but how he moved that
determined his personality . All we animators were dealing with after ‘Three
Pigs’ was acting.” Jones even believed that personality animation really
began  with Pigs.
W alt, too, believed that Pigs  had broken barriers. “It brough t us honors
and recognition all over the world and turned the attention of young artists
and distinguished older artists to our medium as a worthwhil e outlet for
their tale nts,” he wrote, and many of them trekked to Hyperion to join the
cause. More, it had a financial ripple ef fect on the entire studio; the
following year , thanks lar gely to  the attention given to Pigs,  t he stud io’ s net
profit was estimated by Fortune  at $600,000. But the cartoon’ s real ef fect
was on the status of animation  generally and on the status of the Disney
studio specifically . As W alt put it years later , “[T]he main thing about the
‘Three Little Pigs’ was a certa in recognition from the industry and the
public that these things could be  more than just a mouse hopping around or
something.” They could be art.
The dif f erence b etween Thr ee Little Pigs  and  mo st of the earlier Disney
milestones was that it was not o nly an achievement in animation but also,
like the song, a cultural achievement, which was certainly a source of its
astounding popularity . Critics immediately acknowledged that it bored into
the national consciousness, both reflecting and somehow ameliorating
anxiety over the Depression. W alt, as usual, pleaded ignorance, saying that
neither he nor his crew had had any message in mind when the y made the
film. In fact, after nearly four ye ars of national economic turmoil, W alt was
still ama zingly c avalier about it, once even remarking to his staf f that if it
hadn’ t been for the Depressio n, he wouldn’ t have had any  of his top
animators. Even  so, the Disneys were not entirely unaf flicted. Flora and
Elias in Portland  were suf fering; their tenants were unable to pay the rent,
which was, in an y case, half of what it had been before the crash ; and when
Roy sug gested that his father “trade” the rent with a tenant fo r paint and
brushes to refurbish the buildin gs they owned, Elias said that he had $100