# Página 308  
the gag… . W e can see that wh en two unexpected things are b rought into
contrast they give a jolt to the spectators’ nerves and stimulate great
hilarity .” As a result, he adv ised his char ges, “Y ou must train your
imagination and  get into your blood the ability to bring about un related and
contrasted gags.” T aking his science one step further , he charted certain
cartoons to examine the duration  of their gags and to determine whether the
gags were “properly proportioned,” whatever that meant.
W alt, in his obsession with systematization, was so enamored of
Morkovin that he even had him analyze story outlines as he was now
having Graham review rough a nimation in the sweatbox, and W alt got his
idea for distributing questionn aires at the studio after screenings when
Morkovin began issuing bulletins critiquing animations, which, W alt felt,
was “an  ideal way to promote  discussion among everyone.” But W alt’ s
enthusiasm for the professor wa s not widely shared. Most emplo yees found
Morkovin, gray hair lacquered back on his head and bespectacle d, every bit
as pompous as his name and thought his lectures bordered on the comical—
a kind of parody of academic pretension. “[A]n hour a week under T ed
Sears would have done more good than the four days’ juggling with
constantly changing, half-developed, confusing classifications,” complained
one employee after taking Morkovin’ s course. For years, long after he had
left the studio, Morkovin rem ained a joke—one of W alt’ s few failed
attempts at bringing rigor and enlightenment to his staf f.
The intention, however , was not just education; it was infatuation. As
always, W alt wanted the studio  employees to be besotted, as he was, with
the n otion of exc ellence. He wanted obsession, and with the enc ouragement
of Graham’ s classes, he got it. Following W alt, Graham had said that the
“thinking animation character becomes a personality ,” so W ard Kimball and
another animator , Larry Clemm ons, would go out to Ocean Park on hot
summer Friday nights, munch C racker Jacks and popcorn, and muse about
passersby , “anal yzing people: what made them tick, and going into the
psychology of the persons,” as a way for Kimball and Clemmons to hone
their animation talents. Frank Thomas, who was an accomplished piano
player , said he would study the audience as he performed. “[Y]ou watch
these [people] and you know that you’ve got a character for a picture.”