# Página 493  
a ch ance to get  away from thi s God awful nightmare and to bring back
some extra work into the plant.” He said he had a “case of the D.D.’ s—
disillusionment and discouragement.” The studio desperately needed films
now both to bring in revenue and to keep the staf f working. O ne potential
source that had suddenly availed itself that summer was the Of fice of the
Coordinator of Inter -American Af fairs, established in August 1940 to
promote relation s between the United States and Latin America. The of fice
had been the brainchild of mu ltimillionaire oil heir Nelson Rockefeller .
Rockefeller had long been intere sted in South America, first through his art
collecting, then through investments in the Standard Oil subsidiary in
V enezuela, and later through a hotel-building campaign in Car acas that he
had laun ched at the behest of  the V enezuelan president, Eleazar López
Contreras. On his frequent trips Rockefeller had been moved by  the poverty
there, an d in the spring of 1940 he managed to deliver a memo to President
Roosevelt on ways to improve inter -American relations. The memo led to
his appointment as coordinator in a new government bureau.
One of Rockefel ler ’ s methods of bringing the two Americas together was
sharing culture. He sent to South America scores of celebrities, including
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr ., and actress Dorothy Lamour , even the Y ale Glee
Club. He also re cruited his friend and fellow millionaire John H ay Whitney ,
known as “Jock,” to head up a m otion picture division to provide films for
South American theaters that might otherwise be showing movies from the
Axis powers. Somehow , possibly through W alt’ s interventio n, Gunther
Lessing was appointed the chairman of the short subjects committee of
Whitney’ s Motion Picture Secti on. In autumn 1940 W alt was meeting with
Whitney about the possibility of making films for the Coordinator ’ s Of fice.
The following May , W alt met with Whitney and with Whitney’ s assistant,
Frances Alstock , at the studio, and by June, Roy and Lessing w ere meeting
with Whitney to discuss a $150,000 contract for several film s on South
American theme s. “Lets [ sic ] t ry to bring the show down [ sic ] with Jock
Whitney , this question of S.A.  films,” Roy wrote W alt from New Y ork.
“The way he talk ed to me they are waiting on us  t o give them so me definite
plan.”