# Página 83  
Newman chain, for which he h ad illustrated programs at Pesmen-Rubin.
Whose idea it w as to go to Newman is impossible to say . Lo uis Pesmen
later remember ed that W alt invited him to see the carto ons, which
commented humorously on Kansas City’ s slow streetcar service. One
showed a daisy growing on a woman’ s hosiery as she waited for  her trolley ,
only to have her engulfed in flowers by the time it arrived; an other had a
young m an grow ing a beard by the time his trolley arrived. Pesmen said he
laughed “long and hard,” then suggested W alt show them to their old client,
Frank L. Newman.
Newman was the “big showman in Kansas City at that time,” according
to E lias Disney , and he looked the part. He was a big, beefy ma n with dark
hair bril liantined back on his head, a prominent nose, and a square jaw . And
if Ne wman looked like the king of Kansas City show business, h is Newman
Theater , which he had opened t he previous year on Main Street, certainly
looked l ike his palace. Seating one thousand and ranging over one hundred
feet from the sta ge to the entran ce and with seventy-five-foot ceilings, the
Newman was done in Italian R enaissance style with “every square foot of
floor space…of either terrazzo o r white marble,” according to t he Newman
Theater Magazine.  Abando ning its motif, the theater even featured a Louis
XV rest room, w hich, it boasted, was “unquestionably the most beautiful
room of its kind ever constructed.”
W alt Disney came to this ornate edifice early in 1921 carrying his one-
minute reel of cartoons that he had preemptively labeled “Newman Laugh-
O-grams.” As he so often did, W alt would later tell two versio ns of what
happened next— a prosaic version that was probably close to the truth and a
heightened one that was more compelling. In the less dramatic one, he
showed the reel to Milton Fe ld, Newman’ s manager , who would later
become a Hollywood producer  and circus promoter , and Feld promptly
placed an order . (Y ears later W alt would write Newman: “Of course all of
my contacts at that time were through Milton Feld and I did not see much of
you.”) In  the more dramatic telling, he said he sat behind Newm an himself
in the theater , “nervous as a cat,” while the reel was projecte d. When it
concluded, New man quickly spun around, said he liked what he had seen,
and aske d whether they would be expensive to produce. W alt blurted out