# Página 700  
in th irty years of  show life”—these were minority opinions. More generally
the visitors understood that this had been not just the opening of another
amusement park  but a signal event in the culture, a threshold crossed. “I
think that everyone here will one day be as proud to have been at this
opening as the people who were  there at the dedication of the Ei f fel T ower ,”
Cummings remarked on the broadcast. Most seemed to realize that
Disneyland was  an extension of W alt’ s animations, that it was the fantastic
and ima ginary n ow made corporeal, or as McCall’ s  put it, “W alt Disney’ s
cartoon world materializes bigger than life and twice as real.” O thers saw it
as th e ph ysical e xpression of W alt Disney’ s America that had crept into the
American psyc he. “Mr . Disney has tastefully combined some of the
pleasantest things of yesterday with the fantasy and dreams of tomorrow ,”
The New  Y ork T imes  b landly  editoria lized. Whateve r it was—a childhood
regression, a magnificent act of will, or an aestheticized rendition of
America—it immediately made its claim on the national imagination.
The claim was so compelling that as soon as the park opened, both its
observers and its creators felt a need to analyze the experience,  a need that
would continue  as long as the park existed. Almost from the moment
Disney f irst imagined it, he had thought of Disneyland in cinematic terms—
a “ cute movie s et is what it really is,” W alt told his staf f. As t he planning
proceeded, Ben Sharpsteen said  that W alt had repeatedly explai ned that the
“success of Disneyland was primarily based upon the skills of motion
picture s et build ing and special ef fects techniques.” T o achieve cinematic
ef fects, he had manipulated the park’ s proportions. It would often be said
that W al t had built the entire park in five-eighths scale. In truth,  the railroad
was five -eighths scale, which allowed W alt to use narrow-gauge rails and
refurbished narrow-gauge trains. Main Street was a functio n of clever
foreshortening. The lower floors of the shops were nine-tenths scale, the
second f loors ei ght-tenths, and the third seven-tenths. As for th e rest of the
park, W alt wrote an old acqu aintance that the “scale of objects varies
according to what and where they are”—what he called a “matter of
choosing the scale that would be practical and still look right.” The Mark
T wain,  he said, was built on a three-quarters scale.