# Página 584  
W alt wo uld claim that he came to his political conservatism by another
route. He told M aurice Rapf that when he was a boy in Kansas City , he had
been attacked by a gang of Irish kids whose fathers worked for the
Democratic political machine and who put hot tar on his scrotum because
Elias w as a socialist. Rapf n ever believed the story and W alt’ s old
benefactor Dr . John Cowles had been a lar ge cog in the Democratic
machine, but W alt insisted the episode had turned him into a “d yed-in-the-
wool Republica n.” More likely W alt’ s politics were the result of his
rebelliousness a gainst Elias, but the fact was that W alt hadn’ t r eally been a
conservative or a Republican or much of anything else for the b etter part of
his adul t life. Rather , his politics had been marked by either c onfusion or
neutrality . He had voted for Roosevelt in 1936, even as Roy had voted for
Republican Alf  Landon, and though he said he supported Republican
presidential candidate W endell W illkie in 1940—W illkie had visited the
studio and discussed education with W alt—he declined a reque st from the
W illkie campaign for an endorsement, writing, “[A] long time ago I found
out that I knew nothing whatsoever about this game of politics and since
then I’ve preferred to keep silen t about the entire matter rather than see my
name attached to any statement that was not my own.” As for his
conservatism, he told another correspondent who was lobbying him to make
a reel of flags with patriotic music that “I don’ t go in fo r bill-board
patriotism.” “He was very apolitical, believe me,” said Joe Grant, who
accompanied W alt on several wartime visits to W ashington.
Disney’ s detract ors, after the fac t, would say that he had been a n admirer
of Germ an chancellor Adolf Hitler and Italian dictator Benito Mussolini,
and Art Babbitt in later years claimed to have actually seen W alt and
Gunther Lessing at Bund meetings of Nazi sympathizers that Babbitt
himself had attended out of cu riosity; that was highly unlikely , not only
because W alt had little enough time for his family , much le ss political
meetings, but because he had no real political leanings at the t ime. Others
would find evidence of pro-Naz i sentiment in W alt’ s invitation to German
filmmaker Leni  Riefenstahl, who had directed the Nazi propa ganda film
T riumph of the W ill,  t o tour the stud io. Riefenstahl did visit the studio on
December 8, 1938, through an  invitation solicited from W alt by a close
friend of  Riefenstahl’ s and an acquaintance of W alt’ s, Jay Stowi tts, who had