# Página 283  
Still oth ers were  awed by W alt’ s  grasp of detail. He noticed “little things
that would make a big dif ference,” Jaxon said. Earl Colgrove, a cameraman,
remembered W alt summoning him to a sweatbox session for a Silly
Symphony titled The Country Mouse  t o view  some scenes, including  one in
which the mouse sees his reflection in a plate of Jell-O. W alt asked if
Colgrove notice d anything dif ferent about the scene, and when Colgrove
answered that it “looked pretty good,” W alt had the scene run again and
stopped on a single blurred frame where the animation cel had apparently
been placed under the camera b ackward. “After a brief silence W alt turned
the l ights up and  said: ‘Around here we try to be proud of every bit  of work
we do.’”  Anoth er time he noti ced that Mickey’ s tail was mis sing in the
comic strip and ordered it reins tated. “People don’ t realize the importance
he h ad—down to deciding whe ther a character should look lef t or right or
roll his eyes,” W ard Kimball said. “W alt was the final editor of every
damned scene.”
Others cited W alt as an inspiration, setting standards, expecting
perfection, drumming up enthusiasm, buoying spirits. “I think the
outstanding thin g about W alt,” J axon said, “was his ability to make people
feel that what h e wanted done w as a terribly important thing to get done.”
Another called W alt’ s “greatest  gift” his knack for “making you come up
with things you didn’ t know were in you and that you’d have sworn you
couldn’ t possibly do.” W alt was also a great cheerleader , exhorting his
employees to think boldly . “I don’ t want just another picture,” he would tell
them. “It’ s got to be a new experience, a new theatrical experience.” When
he w as enthused, as he usually was, he got others enthused to o. “He was
very exc ited about everything he was doing,” John Hench observ ed, citing a
quality W alt had had even as a boy . “And he lived and breathed it and
finally it rubbed of f on you.”
Finally , and perhaps most impo rtant, there was W alt’ s ability n ot just to
supervise but to coordinate th e entire studio apparatus. W alt himself
compared the cartoons to a symphony , with him as the conductor who took
all the employees—the storymen, the animators, the composers and
musicians, the voice artists, the ink and paint girls—and g ot them to
“produce one whole thing which is beautiful.” T o another interviewer he