# Página 267  
Under it s terms the studio was to receive 60 percent of the first $100,000 in
royalties, with the fifty-fifty split thereafter , and Kamen was to foot all
expenses including his staf f, the New Y ork of fice, and a showroom and
hotel suite in Chicago.
Now Kamen set out to do for W alt Disney Enterprises, the new
merchandise arm  of the studio, what W alt had been doing for W alt Disney
Productions, its filmmaking arm. He was going to reinvent it—transform it
into a sleek, quality-controlled, revenue-producing operation that would in
time hav e the added ef fect of m aking Mickey Mouse even more popular as
a brand than he was as a mo vie star . Believing that Disney should be
af filiated with only the finest manufacturers, Kamen quickly canceled
contracts with less prestigious and aggressive companies and signed up
with bigger and better ones—National Dairy Products, Ingersoll watches,
General Foods (which would sh ortly pay a million dollars for the right to
put Mickey Mouse and his friends on Post T oasties cereal boxes), and even
Cartier jewelers, which was soon marketing a diamond Mickey Mouse
bracelet. (Howev er , his greatest achievement, Kamen said, was “Getting the
Three L ittle Pig s up in lights in New Y ork’ s strictly kosher Ghetto, and
making them like it.”) Kamen was a whirlwind. W ithin a year there were
forty licensees for Mickey Mouse products. A year after tha t, in 1934,
Kamen, with a staf f numbering fifteen in New Y ork alone, had helped
orchestrate $35 million of sales in Disney merchandise in the U nited States
and an equal amount overseas, and he had opened branches across Europe
and even in Australia.
Thanks lar gely to Kamen’ s ef f orts, the image of Mickey M ouse was
ubiquitous and unavoidable. “Shoppers carry Mickey Mouse satchels and
briefcases,” reported The New Y ork T imes  in trib ute to the marketing
phenomenon, “bursting with Mickey Mouse soap, candy , playing cards,
bridge f avors, hairbrushes, chinaware, alarm clocks and hot water bottles
wrapped in Mickey Mouse pape r tied with Mickey Mouse ribb on and paid
for out of Mick ey Mouse purses with savings hoarded in Mickey Mouse
banks.” Children, it continued, lived in a new Mickey Mouse world: