# Página 81  
stern, moralistic , anhedonic world of his father , animation provided escape,
and for someone  who had alway s been subjugated by that father , it provided
absolute control. In animation W alt Disney had a world of his own. In
animation W alt Disney could be the power .  
By late spring, still determine d to master animation, he had immersed
himself completely . He had taken out a book from the Kansas City Library
—“there was only this one b ook in the library [on anima tion]”—and
devoured it. The book, Animated Carto ons: How They Ar e Made, Their
Origin and Development,  by Edwin G. Lu tz, had just bee n published, but it
immediately bec ame, in one animation historian’ s words, the “vulgate of
modern industrial animation.” Lutz essentially brought the latest animation
techniques of New Y ork to the hinterlands like Kansas City . He described
how one could draw backgrounds on a single sheet of celluloid and then
place th em over  the animated a ction, and he suggested that on e draw the
static po rtions of a figure on the celluloid as well and animate th e parts that
moved on a paper beneath. He also explained how a putative animator ,
using a lightbox with two pegs at the top to hold the paper in place—if
successive papers were unaligned, the image would shimmy—could sketch
the extre mes of an action and then have what he called a “trace r” fill in the
pictures in between (what anima tors would call “working to ex tremes”), as
most of the New Y ork professionals did. Lutz even delineated the kind of
person m ost likely to succeed in animation: someone with a  “notion of
form,” someone  who was “a n untiring and courageous worker ,” and
someone who possessed “skill as a manager .”
Even though W alt would late r dismiss the Lutz book as “not very
profound” and “just something the guy had put together to ma ke a buck,”
his associates said they all pored over it, and its ef fect on him too was
nearly a  revelati on. At the Slide  Co. he had been deploying the rudimentary
cutout system of animation with moving limbs. Now he began
experimenting w ith cel animation —r eal  a nimati on. He also began pick ing
the brain  of a former Slide Co. animator named “Scarfoot” M cCory who