# Página 749  
At the same tim e he was still aglow over Disneyland and still intent on
expanding and improving it. He told one interviewer that Disneyland “will
never be finished” and that it “will be a live breathing thing th at will need
changes.” T o another he called Disneyland “my baby” and sai d, “I would
prostitute mysel f for it.” He told yet another correspondent tha t “working,
planning and developing it” af forded him “endless pleasure.” He had
entrusted WED with devising i mprovements, and he was always scouring
Europe himself for new attractio ns and ideas. In late 1958 he de cided to add
a 150-fo ot-high Matterhorn bob sled ride, keyed to a recent feature, Thir d
Man on the Mountain ; a subm arine ri de that would p rovide the illusion of
going undersea, inspired by 20,000 Leagues ; and a monorail that would
circle th e park. Jack Lindquist, the advertising manager at Disneyland,
remembered Ro y telling the st af f that they were just “getting  out of the
hole” an d that they would have to wait two or three years before realizing
any furth er expa nsion. Then he left for Europe. “T wo days after he left,” as
Lindquist told it, “W alt called WED and said, ‘W e’re going to build the
Matterhorn, Monorail and Subm arines.’” When one of the staf f said that
Roy had ordered them to desist, W alt responded, “W ell, we’re going to
build the m. Roy can figure out how to pay for it when he gets back.” (The
three att ractions, at a cost of $5.5 million, opened in June 1959 w ith another
ninety-minute television spectacular , this one featuring V ice President
Richard Nixon.)  On another occasion Marc Davis was presenting the plans
for a new Audi o-Animatronic attraction called Nature’ s W ond erland to a
studio group that included W alt. Davis opened by saying that there were
two ways of ex ecuting the project—an inexpensive one and an expensive
one. “And W alt got all the way  up from his seat and walked around to the
front of the room where I was,”  Davis remembered, “and put his hand on
my shoulder and he said, ‘Mar c,’ he said, ‘you and I do not worry about
whether anything is cheap or expensive. W e only worry if it’ s good.’”
He had big idea s. Of f of Main Street he had conceived of anoth er street,
Liberty Street, and another town square, Edison Square, which would
feature buildings in nineteenth-century American architecture housing
exhibits on science and technology , and which would be sponsored, W alt
hoped, by America’ s leading technology , companies, most prominently
General Electric. On the square W alt also envisioned a Presiden t’ s Hall that