# Página 432  
easy ,” he said, citing his experience on Pinocchio,  “and everybody get a
chance to feel what they’re doing.”
The anim ators u sed some of the  time to study deer . In Snow White,  Eric
Larson commented, the deer had been “sacks of wheat” becau se the staf f
hadn’ t yet acquired the techniq ue to draw them properly . For  Bambi  the
animators spent  three or four months just concentrating on dr awing deer .
W alt had  collect ed thousands of feet of film of deer , borrowing some from
other stu dios and hiring a photographer of his own, Maurice Day , to go to
Maine to shoot studies, includ ing one of a fawn being born—“quite an
assortment of deer stuf f,” as W alt put it. T o provide even mor e guidance,
Day eventually sent two does to the studio, where they were kept in a pen
outside t he animation building, which led to adventures when a rutting buck
descended and had to be lassoed by an assistant director , and then when the
deer themselves escaped into the hills and the animators w ere sent to
recover them. Meanwhile artist  Rico Lebrun conducted classes in the late
afternoon to analyze deer anatomy . He had gotten a fresh carcass from a
forest ra nger , an d at each session he would remove another layer of the skin
or m uscle until he finally reach ed the bone—by which time Eric Larson
was the only one  of the staf f who could tolerate the stench, so Larson made
drawings and distributed them . “[H]e just drilled us and drilled us to
understand wha t the anatomy was, what the bone structure was…what
happened when a leg lifted, what happened when the body weight went on
that leg,” Larson said of Lebrun’ s classes.
For most of this time W alt paid scant attention to Bambi.  But Perce
Pearce, the nominal supervisor , obviously taking his cues from W alt, moved
so s lowly and fixated on such small details that he was b eginning to
frustrate the staf f, and W alt as signed Dave Hand, who had coordinated
Snow White,  t o over see Pearce. Hand was correct when he later said that
some major decisions were made without W alt’ s input. It was Ham Luske,
for example, who suggested at a meeting that September that they centralize
one of the bunnies to act as a kind of guide, just as Jiminy Cricket had done
in Pinocchio.  That gave Bambi’ s friend Thumper a much enlar ged role and
changed Bambi’ s introduction to the forest. As Thomas and Jo hnston later
described it, “[N]ow the first  part of the picture began to be about