# Página 46  
children called his “peevishnes s” and calm his raging storms, though she
did so carefully ,  without confronting or countermanding him. W alt said he
could no t confid e in her because “she couldn’ t keep it from D ad if I told
her .” Still, he thought her saintly .
But if Flora was the family’ s  peacemaker , Roy O. Disney was its
protector—or a t least W alt’ s protector . W alt was never close to either
Herbert or Ray , who had left years earlier , though they both live d in Kansas
City , and he referred to them as “strangers to me all my life.” Indeed,
Herbert had married a local gir l and had had a daughter of hi s own. Roy
seemingly had no more in common with W alt than the older brothers did,
other th an the fact that he still lived at home. He was eight years W alt’ s
senior and hardly a comrade in arms. Nor did he share W alt’ s temperament.
Though nowher e near as dolefu l as his father , whom he closely resembled
physically , he was not an enth usiast or prankster or extrovert like W alt
either , and he had little of W alt’ s appeal. But Roy and W alt for med a very
close rel ationship, so close that W alt seemed to regard him less as a brother
than as a surroga te father , confiding in him as he could never have confided
in Elias. They might ar gue, but when night fell, they would cra wl into bed
together and trade stories.
It was easy to s ee what W alt g ot from this alliance—support.  But Roy
willingly assumed the paternal role, feeling as close to W alt as W alt felt to
him. He would buy W alt and Ruth toys out of his earnings fro m the bank
where he clerked, or bring them candy , or announce that they were going to
the mov ies. He would play hor seshoes or pinochle with them. Roy never
explained why he was so protective of his younger brother , other than to say
that he felt W alt  was too open, trusting, and naïve and needed someone to
watch over him—in ef fect, that he had no common sense. Y ears later Roy
would te ll abou t the old televis ion inventor Lee de Forest, wh o had been
cheated out of what was due him and who was forced in his declining years
to ca dge money from a friend at the Disney studio. “I really believe,” Roy
said, “that W alt would have gotten mired down with crooks…. [H]e’d have
been easy prey for somebody to  twist him up and take him lik e they took
Lee de Forest, and that’ s what I gave him”—a shield. But it was not all self-
sacrifice. Roy gained too. W alt provided what Roy did not have and could