# Página 314  
other s tudios orbited.” “Each new picture contained b reathtaking
improvements,” Thomas and Johnston would write, “the ef fects were better ,
the animation had more life,  and the whole studio had an upward
momentum. It was like being a player on a winning team! T o us, all this
was pure magic.” Another co mpared the animators to the disciples of
Michelangelo: “ W e were part o f a thing that was maybe going to last.”
There was very little griping and virtually no competition among the
employees, only  camaraderie. W ork was joy . “It wasn’ t that you had to do
these things,” Marc Davis said . “Y ou wanted  to do them. Y ou were so
proud. E very wr ite-up the studio got, everybody went out and got it. V ery
few people have ever , as a group, experienced that type of excitement.”
The spir it was so immense that it could barely be contained w ithin the
studio, almost as if it were push ing Hyperion’ s physical bound aries, which
in so me sense it was. W ith the a nticipation of Snow White,  said background
artist Maurice Noble, “the whole studio grew like T opsy .” Afte r erecting a
two-story anima tion building in 1931, with the neon sign on top, the
Disneys had bought lots along H yperion A venue and purchased other tracts
on Grif f ith Park Boulevard, which angled down from the north to Hyperion.
The adjo ining o r gan chimes factory at the intersection of Grif fith Park and
Hyperion that had driven the animators to distraction for so long was either
razed or  renovat ed for Roy’ s new  of fice, a dining and conferenc e room, and
the accounting department. W hen the staf f outgrew the first animation
building, another two-story buil ding with 1 1,200 square feet of space, the
centerpiece of the entire studio, was constructed directly behind it in the
spring and summer of 1934, shortly after production on Snow White
commenced. The animators were stationed on the first floor , and the
projection rooms, replacing the sweatboxes though still called by that term,
were loc ated on  the second. An ink and paint building was erected in the
spring of 1935, beyond the soun dstage, followed that fall by an  apprentice
animators’ building, known variously as the annex or the incubator—
because its roof reminded W alt of the chicken coops in Marceline—across
the s treet. This w as the place wh ere Geor ge Drake held forth and where the
in-betweeners—who had been toiling in the sweltering basem ent of the
animation bui lding, nicknam ed the “bullpen”—now s laved. T o
accommodate the growing staf f, two low-slung temporary wooden