# Página 101  
slept on rolls of canvas and cush ions in the of fice. He “slept there for quite
some time in order to save money ,” Kloepper remembered, and subsisted on
cold beans he ate from a can. (W alt had gotten so thin that Mrs. McBride
was sure he had tuberculosis, like his brother .) He took his baths once a
week at Union Station, where he paid a dime for the privilege.
W ithout a staf f or finances, Laugh-O-Gram was now a shell. It did not
even own its o ne asset, Alice’ s W onderland,  because Fred Schmeltz, in
advancing his periodic loans, including the rent at the W irthman Building
that July , had secured them with a chattel mortgage on virtually all Laugh-
O-Gram’ s equipment and prod ucts, among which was the new cartoon.
Though in March the stockholders had decided to recapitalize at $50,000
and though the plan had been approved by the state in July , this was
financial bluster . Nothing was le ft of Laugh-O-Gram, and it had  no hope of
producing more  cartoons. W alt tried one last desperate scheme  to save the
company , trying to interest the Kansas City Post  i n a we ekly new sreel, but
that failed too. “That seemed to  wash up all prospects in Kansas City ,” he
said.
It was over . Uncle Robert advis ed him that his only recourse now was to
leave Kansas City , and Roy tol d him he should “get out of th ere. I don’ t
think yo u can do any more f or it.” Though W alt said he could have
technically avoi ded responsibili ty by claiming that he was a m inor at the
time of the company’ s incorporation, he chose instead to declare
bankruptcy . In any case, no one seemed to blame W alt for Laugh-O-Gram’ s
demise. “[A]t no time did anyb ody enter a claim,” said Nadine Simpson,
not entirely accurately , “as we all knew it was the fault of no one person,
especially W alt’ s.” Roy attributed the problem to W alt’ s associates.
Thinking either of Pictorial or of Schmeltz, he said that W alt had “gotten
mired down with crooks.” R udy Ising saw problems elsewhere. He
attributed the company’ s failure  to location: “Our ideas were great, but we
were in the wrong area. Kansas City wasn’ t the place for this kind of work.”
But with his gr and scheme for an animation studio dashed, W alt once
again seemed surprisingly blithe. Throughout the failures—the fairy tales,
Laf flets, and Alice’ s W onderland— throughout the days without meals and