# Página 446  
Once again the Disneys needed money . As early as February 1939 Roy
had gone to New Y ork to investigate the possibility of issuing long-term
debentures, which were loan certificates backed by general credit rather
than by specific  assets. This wa y , Roy obviously felt, the studi o would not
have to assign the future profits on the features, as it had had to do to secure
the f inancing from the Bank of  America. By February 1940 r umors were
circulating that the company was considering doing something that W alt
had always insisted it would no t do, issue stock to the public, a nd Roy had
gone to New Y ork again to consult with the investment ba nking firm
Kidder , Peabody . It was a tou gh negotiation, but the Disneys had little
leverage. In the end the studio a rranged to issue 155,000 shares of preferred
stock worth $3.875 million at 6 percent interest, convertible into common
stock when the price of a share of the preferred stock reached 3 0.4 percent
of the value of a share of common stock.* (Since the Disneys owned all of
the c ommon stock and didn’ t want to dilute their holdings, Roy thought the
percentage was too low , but Ki dder wouldn’ t budge.) Kidder also insisted
on p lacing one o f its own execu tives, Jonathan B. Lovelace, on the Disney
board. A nd it asked the studio to buy a $1.5 million insuranc e policy on
W alt’ s life payable in trust to the stockholders should he die bef ore April 1,
1944, four years from the day o f the issue, and to the studio should he die
after that date. I n ef fect, Kidder was protecting the stockholders  against the
loss of the studio’ s greatest asset: W alt Disney himself.
“It will seem a little odd to run  one’ s finger down the columns on the
financial page some day and see  Mickey , Inc. (or W alt Disney Productions,
if on e insists on being formal) going up and down like a thermometer ,” The
New Y ork T imes  comme nted in an editorial shor tly after the of fering. It was
incongruous, bu t less because of Mickey Mouse than because W alt had
never operated by standard business procedures and had always considered
W all Str eet anath ema. Business was what got in the way of creat ivity . When
Fred M oore, not the animator but a Kidder executive, visited W alt
vacationing at Palm Springs the week before the of fering, he found him
much m ore inter ested in talking about skiing at the Sugar Bowl resort than
about th e stock deal. He was trying not to think about the issue. W alt clearly
had mis givings about giving over his studio to the vagaries of W all Street