# Página 762  
W alt to design an attraction there—“something that will impress the
Europeans without of fending t hem and without making us appear to be
‘beating our chests,’” said the coordinator . W alt wound up contributing a
nineteen-minute, 360-degree Circarama film, like the one he had installed at
Disneyland, called America the Beautiful,  whi ch according to one of ficia l
quickly became the “hit not only  of the American Pavilion, but of the whole
Expo.” I t was so popular that v isitors found it even though there was no
sign posted. When W alt had the exhibit transferred to a nylon geodesic
dome at the Moscow Fair the following year , it was again one of the most
popular attractions. The line of those waiting to see it typically wound one
hundred yards around the exhibition grounds.
W alt de clined the invitation to design the “children’ s village” for the
1964 New Y ork W orld’ s Fair , thinking that New Y ork State  would not
dedicate the funds to make the park permanent and seeing no way of
making a profit otherwise. When  W alt explained the problem to Moses over
dinner at Jones Beach on A ugust 3, 1960, Moses understood and
immediately countered with another proposal: that W alt design pavilions for
companies that would be exhib iting at the fair . Whether Moses  knew it or
not, WED had already been contacting various companies about the
possibility of having Disney plan their exhibits; on the very trip during
which W alt was meeting Moses, he was also meeting with executives of
RCA, A merican Machine and Foundry , IBM, A T&T , the American Gas
Association, General Dynamics, and General Electric. Meanwhile Jack
Sayers, who had once headed D isneyland’ s lessee program, was  touring the
East, pre ssing ex ecutives to sign up with Disney , and by December he had
closed d evelopment deals with the Ford Motor Company and IB M and had
received a request from Owens-Corning Fiber glass to research  an exhibit
for t hem. At the  same time, For d of ficials visited Disneyland to see W alt’ s
plans for Liberty Street and to discuss its feasibility as a world’ s fair
attraction, and executives from GE spent a week at the studio to discuss an
agreement.
Obviously W alt thought providing exhibits for major corporations could
be lucra tive for WED. The GE research and development deal alone called
for $50,0 00, a figure that did no t include any costs for the actual design and