# Página 276  
If he had fame, he also had an image. He loved to recount the hardships
of h is youth and  the adversity h e had overcome, and these elements of his
personal mythol ogy now became part of his public story . Repor ters referred
to him as the “Horatio Alger of the cinema” for his long, hard grind to
prominence, while generally ignoring the rambunctiousness that had got
him there. They also found him humble, down-to-earth, and anything but a
Hollywood glam our boy . Asked what it was like to be a celebrity , W alt
demurred, sayin g that it helped  him get better seats at football games and
was a nuisance when he had to  contend with autograph seekers. But, he
added, “ As far as I can remember , being a celebrity has never  helped me
make a good p icture, or a goo d shot in a polo game, or command the
obedience of my daughter , or impress my wife. It doesn’ t even keep the
fleas of f our dogs.”
Playwright Robert Sherwood, m eeting Disney for the first time, expected
to fi nd him ove rbearing and boorish and instead reported that  he seemed
“almost painfully shy and dif fident.” He was also self-deprecating, quipping
when one admirer told him he h ad personality that “[i]t’ s the mo use that has
the personality .” Nearly everyone commented on his informality—on the
casual clothes he wore and on t he studio edict that his employees call him
“W alt.” His of fice was modest and austere with a plain dark-stained desk
and a few frame d awards on the  walls. He was unaf fected by praise. Once
the wind of fulsomeness passes, wrote critic Otis Fer guson in The New
Republic,  th e “air clears and he become s what he was in the first place:
common and everyday , not inaccessible, not in a foreign language, not
suppressed or sponsored or anything. Just Disney ,” which made him the
very pa radigm of the homespun, unpretentious, hardworking American
artist. W alt played up this idea,  saying he seldom read and had little truck
with art, leading one reporter to write, “Disney is as free as Al Smith [the
raspy-voiced former New Y ork governor] from the taint of bo ok-learning;
no man could be clearer of the curse of sophistication.”
T o c omplete the portrait, W alt  was always portrayed as indi f ferent to
everything but his work. Hundreds upon hundreds of desperate individuals
petitioned him during the Depression, asking if he might have a job for
them or  could spare some mon ey from his wealth. He almost invariably