# Página 474  
W est Coasters felt they had to  train the Easterners, and W a lt’ s vaunted
bonus system created tensions not only between W alt and the animators but
between animato rs who felt they were doing essentially the same work but
getting paid lower salaries and those who were receiving the higher salaries.
“If I gave one person a bonus then they could never figu re out why
someone else didn’ t get a bonus, and they hadn’ t earned it, but they couldn’ t
understand that,” W alt later observed. The system was so complicated no
one ever fully understood it.
Over an d above the bonuses, s ome employees burned over what they
believed was the favorable trea tment given to other employees. T o help
foster a sense o f community , W alt permitted W ard Kimball to  or ganize a
jazz band that Kimball called the “Huggajeedy 8,” but it had the opposite
ef fect. “Their practicing could be heard all over the studio during business
hours a nd their sounds weren’ t always pleasurable to the ears,” one
animator later commented. “Such goings-on spread discontent among those
who didn’ t believe in such and those who were just plain jealous.” Others
blamed the new studio for under scoring class distinctions. At the Penthouse
Club, fo r examp le, membership  was restricted to employees making two
hundred dollars a week or more , cleaving the best-paid staf f members from
everyone else. “I don’ t think any of us knew about unions,” Ke n Peterson,
an in-betweener at the time, said. “But we were all feeling sort of left out.”  
Left out and angry—a condition that made them ripe for an incipient
rebellion. For years, as part o f a general mobilization within the film
industry , or ganiz ers had been attempting to unionize animation studios and
the animation departments of major studios. At the old Iwerks studio,
several a nimators decided to unionize after one of their colleagu es died of a
heart attack, but the studio called for overtime to prevent the employees
from att ending a membership meeting, and the ef fort expired. Animators
made m ore head way at the Fleis cher studio in New Y ork, which  was struck
in May 1937, sh ortly after the Fleischers fired fifteen employe es who had
joined the union to protest work ing conditions. The strike lasted six months