# Página 202  
Disneys on what it did collect. B ut this time W alt was determined not to be
gulled or cheated. Instead, he began plotting a preemptive strike.
That fall Sol L esser , an acquaintance of W alt’ s who was a longtime
exhibitor and distributor , introd uced W alt to Joseph Schenck, a leading
figure in the in dustry who was himself a former producer and now the
president of United Artists. W al t admitted that he was awed. Columbia was
a small studio l ocated on what was called “Poverty Row” in Hollywood.
United A rtists w as the creation o f four of the brightest luminarie s in motion
pictures: director D. W . Grif fith, Douglas Fairbanks, Fairbanks’ s wife Mary
Pickford, and W alt’ s idol, Charlie Chaplin. W alt’ s object in wangling the
introduction to Schenck was sim ple: he wanted United Artists to distribute
his cartoons when his Columbia contract expired in April. W alt and Gunther
Lessing had gone to the United Artists lot in mid-November to discuss the
possibility , only to be left wait ing the entire day . T o salve his ego, W alt
made th e excuse that the executives must have had an important meeting.
When he and L essing returned later that week, United Artists, working
through Lesser ,  of fered Disney what he said amounted to a $50,000
guarantee per picture for two years—a deal that, according  to Geor ge
Morris, the studio’ s new business manager under Roy , would “more than
double your present income.”* Aft er a three-hour meeting at  UA, W alt
concurred that “if we can’ t do that good or better with our present outlet,…a
change might be better .” So the man who had so abhorred Mintz’ s secret
deal with  the Disneys’ mutinous animators secretly concluded an agreement
of h is ow n that December . Y oun g W alt Disney was now af filia ted with the
august United Artists.
The Disneys could not let Columbia know about the agreement lest the
distributor begin to stint further on its ef forts for the Mickeys and Sillies,
especially since, between Columbia’ s assumption of the Powers contract
and its own contract for the Sill ies, there were still twenty-five cartoons to
be relea sed before UA took ov er . In fact, Roy continued negotiating with
them as if a new  Columbia contract were still a possibility , and to maintain
the ruse he even met with Universal president Carl Laemmle, who had been
pressing Roy to distribute the cartoons, as if there were still a competition.
When, e arly in April 1931, Columbia executives finally learned of the UA