# Página 273  
cartoon, Mickey , acting as master of ceremonies at a benefit for orphaned
mice, in troduces Donald, who recites “Mary Had a Little Lam b” and then
erupts when the audience razzes him as he begins “Little Boy Blue.” By
cartoon’ s end the young mice a re tormenting him with a bombardment of
bricks and boxing gloves, and D onald is apoplectic. “W ell, the r eaction that
came po uring into the studio fr om the country was tremendous,” Kimball
recalled. “The kids in the theater loved or hated or booed Donald Duck.”
By early 1935, when Donald was harassing Mickey in The Band Concert,
considered by many the best of the Mickey Mouse cartoons, the duck had
already begun overtaking the cartoon’ s nominal star . “There have been
signs tha t the impudence and cockiness of the Mouse were dwindling, that
Mickey was going polite,” Gilbert Seldes observed in The New Y ork
Journal.  “In  ‘The Band  Concert’ the du ck takes over . It is a bad, wicked
duck, a malicious and mischiev ous duck, a duck corresponding to all the
maddening attractiveness of bad little boys and girls—a superb character .”
In some  respects Donald Duck seemed to of fer audiences both a
vicarious liberation from the conventional behavior and morality to which
they had to su bscribe in their own lives and which the D uck clearly
transgressed and, since he usually got his comeuppance, a vicarious revenge
against the pretentious, unattrac tive, and ornery at a time when the entire
world seemed to be roiling in anger and violence. Whereas M ickey had
turned into a s miling cipher , the lumpy Duck was hot-tempered, vain,
pompous, boast ful, rude, suspicious, self-satisfied, and self-in dulgent—a
taxonomy of misconduct and o f fensiveness. Audiences quickly identified
him with President Roosevelt’ s  outspoken and irritable secretary of the
interior , Harold Ickes, who was known generally as the “Great
Curmudgeon.” “Sometimes it was hard for an audience to tell whether Ickes
was imitating the Duck or the Duck was imitating Ickes,” W alt said.
Whether or not the curmudgeonly Donald liberated audiences, he
certainly liberated the storyme n and animators at the studio from the
shackles of Mickey . “Every time  we put him into a trick, a temper , a joke,”
said one writer of the mouse, “thousands of people would belabor us with
nasty let ters. Th at’ s what made Donald Duck so easy . He was o ur outlet….