# Página 718  
money to you kids,” he told his daughters, apparently referring to tax
implications, “an d this is a way to do it!” Diane as the writer of her father ’ s
story was only a conceit. At most she prompted the conver sation. The
actual au thor was a veteran jou rnalist named Pete Martin, who conducted
extensive interviews with W alt at Carolwood that summer—more than
thirteen hours’ worth—and inter viewed associates at the studio as well. The
series appeared in the magazine that fall, and Diane received $75,000 from
the Post —it is unclear whether she spl it the proceeds with Sharon—and
another $1 1,000 from Henry Holt, which had contracted to pub lish a book
version, The Story of W alt Disney .  (Martin received a portion of the Holt
money and a portion of the foreign serial rights.) W alt was so eager to see
the girls benefit that he even of fered to rearrange his schedule  so that he
could come east to promote the series.*
Life wa s more dif ficult for Sh aron, whom W alt had classified as the
family beauty while Diane was called the family brain. While Diane “just
sails thr ough he r classes,” as h er father wrote his sister Ruth, Sharon had
never be en a good student. W alt himself conceded that “school has always
been tough for her” and that “she’d rather ride horses than study .” She was
also mu ch shyer than Diane. W alt told one educator that her “personality
seemed to be hidden under a curtain of apprehensive timidit y ,” until he
found a special program for her from which she emer ged “well-poised and
completely confident of herself.” After graduating from the W estlake
School for Girls in the W estwood section of Los Angeles, she enrolled at
the University of Arizona—W a lt took her there himself—and though he
told his sister that she “loves” it, she lasted only a year and a half before she
quit. Ba ck in Los Angeles she attended USC at night for a sem ester , then
quit that too. “I really just didn’ t like it,” she said years later .
What she did seem to like was modeling. She was tall—5'8½" in her
stocking feet, to Diane’ s 5'4½ " in heels—slender , and attractive, with
reddish, light-brown hair and blue eyes. W alt had even put her i n one of his
films, a Revolut ionary W ar drama titled Johnny T r emain,  to  see if  she might
like acti ng, but, he wrote Ruth, “after this one stint, she has decided that
modeling is still her first love and will stick to that.” For two years she
drifted, working  various odd job s at the studio from secretarial to assisting