# Página 504  
demeanor changed. On the union side, one group of guild members would
walk five abreast down the hallways not letting any of the nonstrikers pass.
On the other side, recalled ani mator Bill Melendez, who had struck, the
nonstrikers “never for gave us for destroying the spirit of the studio.”
Shamus Culhan e believed that both sides harbored a sense o f guilt—the
nonstrikers over whether they had sided with W alt out of cowardice, the
strikers over whether they should have rent the studio as they did. In the
end, wro te Culh ane, the “esprit de corps that made possible all the brilliant
films of the 1930s was dead as a dodo.” In the end W alt Disney ’ s dream of
a perfect haven was dashed.
IV
One war was ov er , but another was about to begin. All the time W alt was in
South America, the supervising  animators who had remained a t the studio
during the strike were working  to finish Dumbo  so that the stud io would
have som ething that might generate revenue. When the film was released in
October , it received extravag ant reviews, even though it had cost
considerably less than its three feature predecessors and even though the
animation was less painterly and realistic than on the previous features.
Bosley Crowther in The New Y ork T imes  called it the “most genial, the m ost
endearing, the most completely precious cartoon feature film ever to
emer ge from the magical brushes of W alt Disney’ s wonder -working
artists!” Otis Fer guson in The New Republic  rhapsodized over a scene in
which Dumbo, having inadvertently drunk some liquor , hallucinates pink
elephants. “I have never seen anything to approach it and neither have you,”
Fer guson wrote,  “because there hasn’ t been anything.” Some saw it as a
return to Disney’ s unpretentious pre- Fantasia  f orm. Saying th at Disney had
recently been sold a “bill of very inferior goods” by the “long-word
intellectuals,” columnist W estbrook Pegler cheered that Disney had now
made “another great work which manages to ignore the evil all about and
lift his fellow men.” The curmudgeonly critic Alexander W oollcott, who
admitted that he had been less than enthusiastic about Snow White,
Pinocchio,  and Fantasia,  wrote W alt, praising Dumbo  as the “highest
achievement yet reached in the Seven Arts since the first white man landed