# Página 299  
most of his dial ogue had already been typed, cutting just a word here or
there, making Snow White a little more ingratiating and seemingly
absorbing the story through his  hand as he had through his performances.
And all these months he was thinking and rethinking: Should there be more
gags or more emphasis on perso nality? Should they aim for the cute or for
the m ore deeply felt? By early December , after well over a yea r of intense
concentration, he felt he had mastered at least the basic outline and tone if
not all the detai ls. “I’ve had con tinuity all wrapped around my neck like a
bunch of spaghetti,” he wrote S idney Franklin that December , explaining
why he hadn’ t b een able to ma ke further progress on Bambi.  “While my
story is not yet c ompletely worked out, I believe we have some thing that is
going to  be good.” He now hoped to have the story licked by sp ring, he told
Franklin, and the entire film fin ished in a year , at which time they could
proceed to animate Bambi.  In the meantime W alt was eager to perform
Snow White  for Franklin and hear his criticisms.
But though W alt was alread y asking his top animators to begin
conceptualizing scenes visually—he had even sent the continuity to
animator Bill T ytla, who was in the hospital recovering fr om a polo
accident—he had underestimated his own perfectionism and badly
miscalculated th e schedule. Snow White  was  still a long, long way fro m
completion—and a long, long way from being everything he wanted it and
needed it to be.
II
He requ ired mo re staf f. Even b efore he began to gear up for Snow White,
the o bligation to produce two fu ll slates of cartoons—the Mickeys and the
Symphonies—and the ever -increasing sophistication with which they had to
be m ade now t hat he was the  W alt Disney , r equired him to hire more
animators. W alt was always hunting for talent, always seeking to add
animators to his crew if they could improve the product. Some of his new
recruits were veterans who wanted to work at the preeminent animation
studio. Carmen Maxwell, one of W alt’ s old cronies from Kansa s City who
was then  toiling  for Harman-Ising, wrote W alt that “I can’ t be s atisfied any