# Página 825  
thought they had removed all o f the cancerous lesion on his lung and that
with a little rest he would be “g ood as new .” But this, T ytle soon learned,
was a ruse to keep W alt’ s spirits from dipping.
W alt never mentioned the cance r , though he carried with him a telegram
from the actor J ohn W ayne, another lung cancer victim, saying, “W elcome
to th e cl ub.” No one at the studi o knew . “Several papers carry s tory of W alt
falling of f horse playing polo, in hospital with neck injury ,”  wrote one
anxious employ ee to another . “W ould appreciate confirmation t hat it is not
serious.” Not even all the members of W alt’ s own family knew what had
happened. Ruth and Ray both learned of the sur gery through the
newspapers, though one of Roy’ s secretaries assured them, “He’ s going to
be okay . ” The of ficial press rele ase reported that a lesion had been found on
his left lung, which had caused  an abscess, and a portion of th e lung was
removed. It made no mention of a malignancy .
By t his time, W a lt, weak but restless, demanded that T ommie W ilck, who
had been delivering his mail each day , check him out of the hospital and get
him back to the studio. He arrived there on November 21, the very day he
was dischar ged, for what everyone on the staf f seemed to realize might be a
valedictory , tho ugh W alt was having none of it. After every one he met
greeted him with big, plastered smiles, he bristled, “Y ou’d think I was going
to d ie or somet hing.” Ben Sharpsteen, who happened to be visiting the
studio th at day , met W alt in hi s of fice and was struck by how gaunt and
ashen he looked, but when they reconvened later in the Coral Room for
lunch, W alt expatiated about his plans, and Sharpsteen noted t hat “he was
gaining strength and feeling like his old self again.”
Imagineer John Hench noticed the same transformation when, after
lunch, W alt asked to visit WED in Glendale and discuss the future. “[H]is
voice to ok on enthusiasm and deepened,” Hench remembered.  W alt spent
twenty m inutes i n Marc Davis’ s of fice viewing sketches for a bear band that
Davis was designing for Mineral King, and he “laughed like hell,” Davis
said. Afterward Davis showed h im a mock-up for a moon trip ri de, and then
W alt tur ned to Dick Irvine and asked to be driven back to the st udio. As he
was walking down the hallway , he turned to Davis and said, “Goodbye,