# Página 558  
I’ve been working years to build up.” The audience had certain expectations
of Mickey Mouse, and this wasn’ t what they expected.
The film had, in any case, been suspended by the strike and the  war , but
even be fore the war the studio  was in such desperate need of cheap and
simple material— W alt wanted the film to be made with the shorts crews
and with the ef ficiencies of the shorts—that he had overcome his
misgivings about Mickey as Jack. It was yet another example of how much
Mickey had ceased to be  Mickey —of ho w much he had been deracinated
over the years until he was essentially just another actor . Anoth er example
of M ickey’ s demise was W alt hi mself. Almost from the beginning W alt had
been Mi ckey’ s voice, even through a throat operation and a tonsillectomy
back in the early  1930s—a sign of his devotion to his creation.  But during
the prod uction o f Mickey and the Beanstalk  a sound  ef fects  man named
Jimmy Macdona ld, who had wo rked at the studio since 1935, got a call to
come to W alt’ s of fice. As Macdonald told it, W alt said that the animators
were pressuring him for Mickey’ s dialogue, and he just didn’ t have the
time. (M acdonald also suspecte d that W alt was getting too hoarse to voice
the f alsetto Mickey , possibly fro m his chain-smoking filterless Camels.) He
asked if  Macdon ald might give it a try . Macdonald, a beefy , blunt-featured
man for whom Mickey’ s high-p itched voice was incongruous, recorded a
track, W alt another for comparison. W alt listened and approved, and as
Macdonald later  recounted, “right then we switched over to usin g my voice
for Mickey , right in the middle of Mickey and the Beanstalk. ” Macdonald
would p rovide Mickey’ s voice  for the next thirty-eight years, but the
casualness with which the transition was ef fected was telling. I t testified to
W alt’ s growing estrangement from Mickey and perhaps from the
animations generally .
W ith these movies, W alt’ s artistic reputation among critics and
intellectuals, lon g sinking, reached its nadir . Most found the f ilms coarse,
overly commercial, and utterly charmless. (One exception was Ser gei
Eisenstein, who thought Make Mine Music  “absolutely ingenious” and was
especially struck  by the “W illie  the Whale” section, which he compared to
Moby Dick  and  Edgar Alla n Poe’ s The Pit and the Pendulum. ) The deeply
felt if occasionally overwrough t emotion of the early features  had given