# Página 455  
animated under the influence of any drugs. “Y es, it is true,” he answered. “I
myself was addicted to Ex-Lax and Feen-a-Mint,” two laxatives.
Once again W alt had saved the most dif ficult scene for last. He had
decided that the “A ve Maria” sequence should follow “Bald Mountain,”
partly as an antidote: “W e are portraying good and evil.” As W alt
conceptualized it, the church bells in “A ve Maria” would sweep from the
speakers at the back of the theater forward, chasing the demons of “Bald
Mountain” of fscreen. It would provide, he thought, exactly the s ort of slow ,
somber note needed to end the film—the sort of grace note he lamented he
didn’ t h ave at the end of Snow White,  where he thought he had raced  too
quickly from her sleep to her aw akening. He also thought the s cene would
be commercial. “There’ s still a lot of Christians in the world, in spite of
Russia and some of the others ,” he had said at a story meet ing, “and it
would be a hel l of an appealin g thing from that angle.” If it was being
shown i n a non-Christian country , W alt advised, they could sim ply snip it
of f.
He had set hims elf and the staf f a dif ficult task. Just as he hoped  to create
the feeling of being in the woods in Bambi,  t he ef fe ct W alt was looking for
in “A ve Maria” was the “feeling that you are inside a cathedral without
showing anythin g that is actually  recognizable as a cathedral.” A nd it had to
be a big climax: “It must be lik e a spectacle on the stage,” W alt ordered,
something practically hypnotic in the spell it would cast. But W alt wasn’ t
just issuing general ideas to be implemented. He gave the direc tor , W ilfred
Jackson, detailed instructions on what he wanted, right do wn to the
dissolves.
If that weren’ t enough, W alt had come up with one more idea for the
sequence, an idea he thought would supply the necessary awe, even as the
deadline was hard upon them. He decided he wanted a 220-foot tracking
shot into the Go thic cathedral. T o get it, he shut down one entire  soundstage
because he needed a space that lar ge to move the camera throug h the panes
of glass that constituted the planes into the church. By one acco unt, it took
six d ays with th e crew working twenty-four hours each day in twelve-hour
shifts to finish the shot. At one point the entire crew worked forty-eight