# Página 122  
Improvement was his mantra—the only way to succeed, the only way to
get the recogniti on he so badly wanted, the only way to create a full fantasy
world for himself. W alt admitted  now that he had been a little too cocksure
when he  began the studio and that he had had a lot to learn about making
films, ev en hiring a cameraman from Century Studios, apparently at Geor ge
W inkler ’ s behest, because he conceded he did not know enough about
running the camera himself. In attempting that February to rec ruit two of
his old Laugh-O -Gram colleagu es, Hugh Harman and Rudy Ising, now that
he n eeded to enlar ge the staf f to meet the new expedited schedu le, his main
selling point was how much Cal ifornia could of fer since “Y ou have’nt [ sic ]
much ch ance fo r big stuf f where you are,” and how much they needed to
learn if they hoped to succeed in animation—“things that can only be
learned by actual experience with experienced people.” As he had in
Kansas C ity , W a lt would provide the training. He added: “After you see Los
Angeles, Hollywood and the surrounding country , you will feel ashamed of
yourself for not coming sooner .”
By t he e nd of April, after much dickering over salary , both Ha rman and
Ising de cided to  join Disney Br os., swelling the staf f to nine, exclusive of
W alt and Roy . By one account, their arrival that summer had an immediate
ef fect, if not o n the look of the animations then on the l ook of the
animators, all of whom, including W alt, made a friendly compact to grow
mustaches. “W alt wanted to shave it of f,” his wife would later recall, “but
we d idn’ t let him.” But in point of fact W alt and Iwerks had actually grown
their mustaches befor e  Har man and Isi ng arrived, at least as early as April.
And apparently W alt, with his love of disguise, had been thinking about
growing a mustache for years, quipping to a friend in a photo inscription
from Fra nce: “W ell here I am but no mustache.” Roy said the mustache was
not the result of  a lark but a corrective to W alt’ s youthful appearance; he
needed it to loo k older than his twenty-three years so that he could better
bar gain with business associates and with his staf f, many of whom were
older th an he. “[H]e did have a complex for a while of trying to make
himself look older ,” Roy said, “because he was so young.”
The sma ll toothbrush mustache would become a permanent fixture on his
face (and on Iw erks’ s too), and the physical feature most closely identified