# Página 386  
left for a vacation in New Y ork. But the end of polo also meant the end of
his polo relationships, which  were among the few friendships he
maintained. He had never enjoyed much of a social life—he had never had
time for one—and what little he had had been lar gely ruined by Snow
White.  I n the s tudio’ s early days, whe n W alt fraternized primarily with his
employees, his work life and his social life usually conver ged. But by the
time he began producing Snow White,  he had withdrawn from them
socially . As animator Marc Davis put it, “[W]hen the Studi o began to
become really something, a few of these men weren’ t growing to the same
degree t hat he was. So pretty soo n his associations were mostly with people
away from the Studio and his private life became divorced from the Studio.
Many of  these men could never understand that W alt had outgrown them—
he had changed.”
Y et even as he disengaged socially from his employees, W al t did not
plunge into the Hollywood scene. Though he and Lillian socialized
throughout the 1930s with the Spencer T racys, inviting them to the new
house on W oking W ay for an af ternoon of swimming and badminton, these
invitations were  occasional and were tendered via a telegram  or a letter
rather th an by phone. Similarly , even after he managed to lure h is childhood
friend W alt Pfeif fer to the studi o to work in the story department, the two
were surprisingly distant and formal—employer and employee rather than
pals. Mo st of his associates felt that he was close to no one. “W alt was a
hard guy to ge t close to,” a nimator W ard Kimball said. “He was a
workaholic. His career was his whole life. I think I was as good a friend as
he e ver h ad.” An other employee  described W alt as “friendly , but  a man who
didn’ t a ppear to accept close friendships.” Lillian agreed. Asked by an
interviewer to name W alt’ s closest friends, she said, “[H]e really didn’ t have
time to make friends…. W alt had too much to do. He had to have a clear
mind for work the next day .” No one, not even Lillian, could crack him. He
was so self-absorbed, so fully  within his own mind and ideas, that he
emer ged only to share them and to have them executed.
W alt seemed to realize that he was hopelessly addicted to work at the
expense of family and friends. For years he and Lillian had bee n shopping
for a  ranch where he could get away , only to conclude, as he  wrote one