# Página 322  
director would settle on how mu ch he was to draw . Once the cartoon—or in
the case of Snow White,  th e scene—was finished, his w ork was to be rated
on its quality by a panel of supervisors; a price per foot had been
established for each grade on a sliding scale from eight dollars a foot for
grade A animation to four dollars for grade C. T o determine the animator ’ s
bonus, i f any , the grade would b e multiplied by the footage he contributed.
Anything that exceeded his sala ry would be paid to him, and a nyone who
consistently exc eeded his salary would be awarded a permanent adjustment
the following year .
Not ever yone appreciated the new system. “Nobody liked it really ,” said
Sharpsteen with some hyperbo le, “except for a few smart chiselers who
somehow had a way of making it look good for them.” Slowe r animators
were obviously disadvantaged, which was the whole point,  and some
complained that better animators were forced to redo the wor k of poorer
ones with no c ompensation. Moreover , those animators who worked on
features felt that they were mor e dif ficult to rate since the work itself was
more dif ficult than the work on shorts. Nor was the scale as objective as it
was pur ported t o be. W alt still closely examined each film and  dabbled in
making ad hoc adjustments, believing that the animators had to be amply
rewarded if they were to do their best work. As W ard Kimball remembered
it, “ Some sort of magic light would shine over the studio…and all of a
sudden y ou mig ht get a raise.” Though the bonus system woul d later have
some devastating repercussions, in the near term, for all its flaws, it had its
intended ef fect. It seemed to expedite production, particularly on the shorts,
without necessarily sacrificing quality . It seemed to rein in cost s. It seemed
to g ive the anim ators a greater financial stake in the studio. Above all, it
seemed to create an even deeper sense of loyalty and dedication. As one
employee expressed it to W alt a fter receiving his bonus, “I defin itely intend
to do all I possibly can to uphold my responsibility to you and the firm.”
W alt would need it.
IV