# Página 93  
he admitted, meant he subscribed to newspapers and scoured them for
jokes.
Disney h ad a staf f, but he did n ot have a contract for his animations, of
which there was only one at the time he placed his Motion Pictur e News  ad.
Though certain of success as he always was, W alt seemed unaware of the
generally weak market for cartoons at the time. No one went to the movies
to see animations, and distributors did not feel the need to pay premium
prices fo r them. As the seating c apacity of theaters grew during the theater -
building boom of the late 1910s and early 1920s and admission prices rose,
cartoons were essentially add-ons meant to fill out a two-hour p rogram that
typically includ ed a feature film, a one- or two-reel live comedy , a
newsreel, and a serial, and less f requently a travelogue, a dramatic short, or
even a live vau deville perform ance. According to one 1922 survey , 73
percent of theaters used a two-reel live comedy , 59 percent a ne wsreel, and
35 percent a seri al, but only 23 percent featured a cartoon, which meant that
W alt was not entering the most lucrative of fields.
He soon discovered that for himself. After his Motion Pictur e News  ad
elicited only tepid responses, W alt sent Mace, who had been a local sales
representative fo r Paramount Pictures, to New Y ork in mid-August to hunt
for a distributor . Mace was accompanied by Dr . Cowles, wh o had gone
there to press hi s oil scheme. Bu t Mace had no more success in person than
he had had with the ad. As Adolph Kloepper , the business manager , later
told it, Mace w as staying at the McAlpine Hotel, and the “bills were
amounting to more than the am ount of money that we had in the bank.”
W alt had  already  ordered Mace home in defeat when, apparently  at the very
last mom ent, the  sales manager concluded a deal with W illiam R. Kelley , a
representative of the T ennessee branch of Pictorial Clubs, Inc., which
distributed films primarily to church and school groups.
It was not exactly a rescue. The T ennessee branch of Pictorial Clubs was
every bit as inconsequential as it sounded, and the deal Mace made with
them was as in consequential as Pictorial itself. It was also one-sided.
Though the contract called for $1 1,100 for six animations to be d elivered by
January 1, 1924, it also stipulate d that Pictorial need put down only $100 on