# Página 802  
“cities”—the C ity of Y esterday and the City of T omorrow . Indeed,
according to Robert Foster , W a lt hadn’ t actually seen the exa ct property
until the morning of the announcement, when he flew over it in his
Gulfstream, and  he didn’ t set  foot on it until the morning after the
announcement, when he tramp ed there with Roy , Donn T atum, General
Potter , and a local politician, motorboating across a lake on the site with
what Foster called a “rare expression of approval.”
The truth was that W alt wasn’ t especially interested in building another
amusement park in Disney W orld, as the new complex was to be  called, and
when Ro y form ed a central com mittee to set general strategy f or the park,
W alt wa s not even a member . W alt had already built a park, and as Roy told
one jour nalist, “W alt instinctive ly resists doing the same thing twice. He
likes to try something fresh.” What he had not done—what he had long
hoped and dreamed of doing sin ce at least the City of the Arts— was create
an entire urban environment from scratch: a perfect city . W alt didn’ t
particularly like cities—while ri ding in the train from the Chicago Railroad
Fair in 1948, he  commented to W ard Kimball that he couldn’ t understand
why peo ple live d in cities whe n they could live in open spaces—and he
especially hated Los Angeles’ s urban sprawl. Imagineers said  that when
they wer e planning T omorrowla nd, W alt would carry around books on city
planning and mutter about traf fic, noise, and neon signs, and he kept three
volumes in his of fice to which he frequently referred: Gar den Cities of
T omorr ow  by Sir Ebenezer Howard (or iginally published in 1902 and
reissued in 1965), which promo ted a vision of a more pastoral urban life;
and The Heart of Our Cities  and Out of a Fair , a City ,  both by an architect
and mall designer named V ictor Gruen, who ur ged the reconceptualization
of the city as m ore ordered, rational, and humane. W alt’ s interest in city
planning was so intense that the science fiction writer Ray Bradbury , who
had met  W alt in a department st ore during a Christmas shopping spree and
become a friend, once approached him about running for ma yor of Los
Angeles. “Why should I run for  mayor when I am already king?” W alt told
him.
The appeal of Disney W orld to W alt—its only real appeal to him—was
that he would fi nally have a ch ance to build a utopian city adjacent to the