# Página 798  
penetration each  year in the Eastern populations.” By his cal culations, it
would take one hundred years at the present rate of attendance to saturate
the population east of the Miss issippi River , which then constituted two-
thirds of  the population of the country . The only way to reach those people,
Price believed, was to build a park in the east, and the best place to build it
was Florida. Price was already providing W alt with possible sites as early as
spring 1961, while Donn T atum,  now the vice president of administration at
the studi o, went to Florida to survey available real estate in the central belt
of the state. “W e are more enth usiastic than ever about the po tentials and
await your guidance in carrying  the ball further ,” T atum wrote  W alt upon
his return.
That guidance wasn’ t immediately forthcoming, most likely because W alt
was preoccupied  with planning the world’ s fair exhibits and steering the
studio again. But sometime early in 1963 he convened a sm all, highly
select, and discreet group of exe cutives—among them T atum, Card W alker ,
and Joe Fowler ,  the vice presid ent of Disneyland—and char ged them with
finding five to t en thousand acres in Florida for a new park. (T he size was
necessary becau se W alt had always regretted not having more property
around Disneyland to keep the surroundings from seeming tawdry and
spoiling Disney land’ s ef fect.) He code-named the enterpris e variously
Project Future or Project X to maintain its secrecy . When W alt revealed his
plans to Lilly , sh e later admitted she was aghast. “What do you want to do
that for?” she asked. T o which W alt, who was working at the time on the
world’ s fair and CalArts as we ll as on the studio’ s production schedule,
replied that “he would get stagnant if he didn’ t do new things.”
From the first, it was a cloak-and-dagger operation. No one was to know
that W alt Disney was trying to buy property , or prices would soar . As Card
W alker laid out the scheme to W alt that September , “W e wou ld carefully
select a third p arty (like Governor Arnell) who would be our front. He
would actually be seeking the l and for another carefully selected company
or person. In tur n, this third par ty would select a real estate man or lawyer
knowledgeable in real estate who, on a pre-determined plan, would
assemble the land. The real estate man would never  know we are involved.
W e wou ld have a ‘team’ to follo w and call every move as it de velops. The