# Página 810  
that clas s distinctions are not a natural product of Social Darwinism and
that classes need to find comm on ground (as in Cinder ella, Lad y and the
T ramp,  and  the Spin and Marty serial); that acceptance of others is a
positive good (as in Davy Crockett’ s gospel of understanding the Indians);
that public recognition is less  important than personal fulfillment; and
finally th at indiv idualism, as essential as it is, is best when it operates in the
service of the co mmunity . Even Pollyanna,  s eemingly the m ost bathetic of
Disney movies if one of the mo st moving, exposes not small-town virtues
but sma ll-town hypocrisy , attac ks the forces of tradition and wealth, and
makes a call for a progressive alliance to promote tolerance; and  in a lesser -
known film, A T iger W alks,  the  Menckenian impulse is s o strong that
ordinary Americans are depic ted as greedy and self-serving. In short,
though W alt Disney was made to seem conservative—and made himself
seem conservative because it fit the cultural ethos of the time—in his films,
at least, he may have not been s o very conservative after all, no r the barrier
against the new America that he was often purported to be.  
While W alt promoted communi ty , quite possibly the most fam ous man in
America may also have been among the loneliest. Age had made him no
more social than he had been a s a young man yoked to his studio. Dinner
invitations to the studio almost always bore W alt’ s emphatic “ NO !,” in his
red crayon, underlined, sometim es twice, and he was no more receptive to
invitations to appear at public events, invariably begging of f. Even with the
girls go ne he and Lillian seld om entertained, and old friends, like the
Spracklings wit h whom they had traveled in the 1950s, faded from their
lives. He  had always found sola ce with his pets, and after Duchess died, he
got hims elf ano ther poodle named Lady , but Lady died too. At the studio,
despite all the ac tivity , he sometimes seemed bereft. Bill Peet re called W alt
slumping into his chair with a “mournful sigh” and announci ng, “It gets
lonely around here. I just want to talk to somebody ,” then beginning to
relate th e tale of his childhood travails and his father ’ s cruelty . But when
Peet began to talk about his own childhood miseries, W alt “jumped to his
feet and  said, ‘Gotta get goin’ !’” Marc Davis remembered seeing W alt