# Página 232  
$195,000 to be used as W alt saw fit. Roy called it “our first good contract.”
The only hitch was that the s tudio had fallen behind in its delivery of
Mickey Mouse cartoons, and in order to catch up it had to  divert the
animators from the Symphonies for six months.
All of this sho uld have made W alt happy , but if he was no longer
besieged by financial dif ficulties, he was still in the grip of his own
obsession with excellence, which made him compulsively dissatisfied, and
he n ow had a new burden—the burden of expectations. Everyon e seemed to
recognize that Disney not only  consistently produced the best animations
but had begun to reinvent animation. He was transforming it from a crude,
juvenile novelty to something that approached a naïve art. Inde ed, this was
the new Disney enterprise, a revolution really: to do whatever it took to
elevate a nimation to an art form . “Practically every tool we us e today was
originated at the Disney studio,” Chuck Jones, a celebrated W arner Bros.
animator and producer , would la ter observe, and he compared Disney to the
great live-action  director D. W . Grif fith, who was similarly extolled for
having brought art to the silent film. Disney’ s own animators appreciated
that they were pioneers. Les Clark claimed that animation developed
“because of W alt’ s insistence and supervision,” and animators Frank
Thomas and Ollie Johnston wrote that “The exhilaration of breaking
through barriers to new frontiers was more than any of us could resist.”
But the most str iking dif ference  between the animations of W alt Disney
and thos e of his forebears and c ompetitors was, as always, less a matter of
innovation than aspiration—the old Disney demand that one strive for the
very bes t. “W alt would not—repeat would not—OK any animation that did
not m eet with this very high standard of acceptance,” one Disne y employee
wrote. I n practic e, this meant th at everything one did had to be analyzed,
endlessly analyzed, to make sure it worked, to make sure that it was up to
standard, to make sure it could not be improved upon. As ani mator Dick
Huemer put it, everyone at the  studio found themselves “analyzing and
reanalyzing…reanalyzing, disca rding and starting all over again,” which
was so contrary to the routine at rival animation studios, where, as another
animator put it, “Y ou were paid  to bat out thirty or thirty-five f eet a week,