# Página 346  
America would soon take over  the company—a prospect, wrote animator
Shamus Culhane , that “created a  feeling of tension in the studio that almost
made th e air crackle.” Y et even  as they were ur ged to speed u p, they felt
dread in  produci ng anything that might disappoint W alt and dread in letting
anyone else clean up and possibly sap their drawings’ ener gy , so they
withheld their footage from fina l cleanup even after it had been approved,
resulting in a massive slowdo wn just when things should have been
accelerating. “Y ou fellows are all trying to get your work as good as
possible,” Dave Hand told them ruefully after learning that they were
spending an average of two hours on each drawing. “W e are i n sympathy
with that, but we  are not in sympathy with the fact that you are so carefully
watching every detail that you are not allowing it to move th rough”—an
odd adm onition at a studio wh ere everyone knew W alt himself carefully
watched every detail. It was a s ign of the growing desperation that by July
animators were being asked not to have their scenes cleaned up but rather to
“finish the details in the rough s tate as this will be complete enough for the
Inking of this fast action.” By this point some of the animat ors were so
benumbed that they found releas e by doing sketches of a nude S now White
surrounded by tumescent dwarfs—a way , opined W ard Kimball, to
challenge the suf focating perfection of W alt Disney’ s world.
As they headed into the fall, th e staf f was working twenty-four hours a
day in eight-hour shifts, and many of them worked on Saturdays and
Sundays as well, for which, as further proof of their commitment to the cult,
they received no overtime pay . The animation lightboards wou ld grow so
hot that the artists could burn their arms and hands. So many ce ls remained
to be photograph ed that the cam era department worked in two twelve-hour
shifts—from eight o’clock to eight o’clock. Ef fects specialist Cy Y oung
needed sur gery but postponed it because he was working on the “ideal
achievement,” a nd when one animator asked for a leave because he was
having t o suppo rt his two brothers and their families and because he felt he
was in a “rut,” W alt snapped, “I suggest you get down to b usiness and
for get a ll about  the situation an d make the best of the opportunities you
have he re.” T o help out in ink and paint, W alt borrowed girls from the
Harman-Ising st udio, headed by two of his old Kansas City coll eagues who
had rece ntly lost a contract to produce cartoons for MGM. As for the shorts,