# Página 405  
that Mic key had  more curve and less rigidity .* H e also further enlar ged the
head and shrank the body . “M ickey is cuter when drawn with small
shoulders with a suggestion of stomach and fanny and I like h im pigeon-
toed,” he told an action analysis class.
Mickey gained mass and weight—“counter movements, counter thrusts,”
in K imball’ s words. His cheeks began to move with his mouth, a nd Kimball
himself converte d Mickey’ s eyes from lar ge, inexpressive black pupils to
ovals surroundin g pupils. All of these changes made Mickey even more
childlike and less rodentlike, which had always been the dire ction of his
evolution anyway . Though children’ s heads obviously become smaller in
relation to their bodies as they  grow , evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay
Gould o bserved that Mickey had “traveled this ontogenetic pathway in
reverse”: the animators infantilized his appearance by enlar ging his head,
lowering his pants line, and covering his legs to shorten them, thickening
his snout and m oving his ears b ack on his head to make the forehead lar ger
and more rounded.
This new Mickey was indisputably cuter , as Moore had said, than the old
Mickey , and cute seemed to be t he order of the day . “I think peo ple think of
Mickey as a cute character ,” W alt would tell a story meeting after the
redesign. “[H]e  is a cute character—and he should be more likable in
everything he does.” But in making him cuter and more of a child, the
animators had removed the last remnants of his rude ener gy—“his vitality ,
his a lertness, his bug-eyed cartoon readiness for adventure,” in Updike’ s
words. The old Chaplinesque d evilry was completely expunged. (In truth,
Chaplin had lost most of his devilry too.) If he became more ex pressive, he
had less to be expressive about.  As Updike wrote, referring sp ecifically to
Mickey’ s new eyes but equally applicable to the entire redesig n, “It made
him less abstract, less iconic, more merely cute and dwarfish.”
Though he had approved the redesign, W alt understood that i t had not
solved the Mickey problem. (Y ears later he would say of Mickey’ s demise,
“W e got  tired & we had new characters to play with.”) Mickey needed
something more  to survive. He needed a vehicle. Ben Sharps teen denied
that W alt had decided to make The Sor cer er ’ s Appr entice  because he