# Página 341  
disgustedly , “If you would resig n from U.A. and come over and work for
Disney for a w hile, we might be able to make some hea dway…. In
repentance, I suggest that you g ive them the plant, our tradema rks, patents
and cop yrights, and work for them on a salary—or if perhaps they are not
satisfied with this, I can go and get a job with Mintz and you can sell
vacuum cleaners, again.” In the end, with the blessings of the united artists
themselves—Chaplin wrote Lessing that “I don’ t want to make  any money
on W alt, and anything I can ever do for him I will gladly perform”—the
Disneys departe d. One of the stated reasons for severing ties with UA was
that it had want ed to retain television rights, and W alt, who h ad taken an
early an d avid interest in television, refused to grant them. A more likely
reason, though, was that W alt and finally Roy too wanted the power of
RKO behind Snow White,  and RKO’ s chairman, M. H. A ylesworth, in
announcing the  compact with Disney , said, “[P]ersonally I have seen
enough of his fi rst feature length cartoon, ‘Snow White,’ to realize that it
will rate  as one of the most unusual features ever turned out in the field of
animated cartoons.”
Of course A ylesworth couldn’ t have seen much of Snow White  at that
point be cause th ere was very little to show . But W alt was eager to please his
new distributor , which was apparently one of the reasons he embarked on
The Old Mill —to ma ke a big splash. In contracting to provide six Silly
Symphonies and twelve Mickey Mouses (these included Donald Duck
cartoons as well) for the coming year , after he had fulfilled his UA
obligations, W al t intended “to m ake at least half of the Symphonies of the
very bea utiful, charming type, with musical, fantasy stuf f,” and ur ged RKO
to sell them as a  block, which “enables us to put in subjects abo ut which we
may fee l inspired” rather than just slapstick comedies. But if W alt was
determined to impress RKO, RK O was determined to get Snow White,  and
W alt had committed himself to presenting a print in November 1937 for a
Christmas release. Now he was under tremendous pressure to deliver .
After what had a mounted to years of deliberation and procrastination, he
had reac hed the winter of 1937 with virtually the entire film lef t to animate
and less than ten months to do so. Indeed, though the animation had begun
in 1936,  the first cels weren’ t s ent to ink and paint until January 4, 1937,