# Página 616  
languorously paced, though W a lt, seeming to want the distraction, wasn’ t
impatient. It took well over a year to finish, and even after the family
moved in late in May 1950, W alt spent another six months laying the track
for his railroad and building a small engine house and workshop that had
been adapted from the design fo r the barn in So Dear to My Heart,  which,
W alt cla imed, had itself been adapted from his father ’ s barn in Marceline,
making the Carolwood house yet another reminder of W alt’ s happiest
memories. The Disneys even planted fruit trees as on the Marceline farm.
Though it had s eventeen rooms, the house was hardly palatial. (Having
reinvested his money in the studio, he “didn’ t make the kind of money those
guys [fil m moguls] did,” Diane recalled.) W alt said that it was s caled to the
family’ s needs and designed to simplify Lillian’ s housekeeping, and it was,
but it was also designed to allow W alt to withdraw not only from the world
generally , as he had always de sired to do, but into the kind of delayed
childhood that he was now enjoying. He often spent his evenings in the
workshop making tiny furniture  for his railroad while Duchess, to whom he
slipped bologna and hot dogs that he had stuf fed in his pockets, slept on a
blanket. Then exactly at midnig ht, he said, she would get of f the blanket
and begin nudging him to go to bed. “And she’d sit and look at me until I
came,” W alt wo uld recall. “She wouldn’ t leave my side until I c ame.” Other
times he  manned  his soda fountain with its red leather barstools and its long
bar with  shelves of glasses behind it. W alt jokingly complai ned that he
supplied sundaes to the entire neighborhood, but he relished playing the
soda jerk. W ard Kimball said he had every kind of syrup and topping, and
he w ould “fix th ese huge goopy things for his guests, ice cream sodas and
the biggest banana splits you e ver saw .” Sharon remembered  his mixing
“weird concoctions,” including on one occasion a champagn e soda that
even he  admitted was barely potable. But he had another  motive in
installing the soda fountain besides indulging his childhood fantasies. He
was hop ing to freeze time. For t he father of two teenage daughters, the soda
fountain, the pool, and the other amenities were, he confessed, a “means of
keeping them from going away from home to school, which wil l be all right
with me,” so tha t the sprawling wings of the house not only wel comed, they
also held dear .