# Página 653  
either in  an old bungalow at the  edge of the lot that, appropriately enough,
had bee n transported from Hyperion or in a temporary trailer . (Accounts
dif fer .) And then he began to r ecruit a small staf f to help him plan. Less
than a week afte r the board and WED agreed to terms, W alt hir ed Lillian’ s
brother -in-law B ill Cottrell as the new company’ s first employee to work
both on nascent television projec ts and on the park. Art director Dick Irvine
joined three weeks later , and Ir vine’ s associate Marvin Davis, also an art
director , came with him. Harper Gof f, who had drawn the original
Disneyland sketches, arrived too.
W alt was also cruising the studio for candidates. Layout artist John
Hench, the man who had worked with Dali on Destino,  remembered W alt
stopping at his desk one day and telling him, “I want you to work on
Disneyland, and  you’re going to like it.” Hench said he ha d only the
slightest idea of what W alt was  talking about, but he joined the new crew
anyway . Others would eventual ly follow: animators, machinists , additional
layout artists. “When he actua lly got into Disneyland, he b rought any
number of people over to WED from the Studio,” Bill Cottrell re membered.
“Business was slowing down in  the Studio, and instead of laying them of f,
he put them on his personal payroll, the WED payroll.”
But these were all movie people, people who knew how to make
animations and live-action pictures, not amusement parks. W alt had Gof f ’ s
drawings, which  were the equivalent of the thumbnail sketches for the
features, but he needed an architect and engineer to execute them. In April
1952, nearly a year before the formation of WED and just wee ks after the
presentation to the Burbank of ficials, W alt invited architects W illiam
Pereira and Charles Luckman to the studio to discuss the park, and
afterward Pereir a conceded to W alt that he had fallen “hoo k, line and
sinker” for the p roject. Of all the local architects, it was not sur prising that
W alt should have asked Pereira to a conference. Pereira was not only a
notable Los Angeles architect—he had designed the Pan-Pacific
Auditorium where W alt had shown Granny’ s cabin; the Robinsons
Department Sto re in Beverly Hills; the Marineland of the Pac ific aquatic
park; and the Los Angeles International Airport—but he had also been an
art d irector and production desi gner at Paramount who had the n partnered