# Página 691  
the park  sandblasted the locomotive Casey Jr .  a nd repainted i t because it
had been painted at the studio by members of a rival union. E ven nature
rebelled: the weather in the spring was the wettest the county had had in
twenty years.
And then there w as W alt Disney trudging over the site in a straw hat and
loud spo rt shirt,  as in the old da ys, ordering the workers about, alternately
hurrying them up and slowing t hem down, willing the property to conform
to h is dream. “He walked over  every inch of Disneyland,” W a rd Kimball
said, “te lling them to move a fence a little more to the left b ecause you
couldn’ t see the boat as it came ’round the corner . I’d be with hi m out there,
and he’d say , ‘T he lake is too small. Maybe we should make it lar ger . Let’ s
find out if we ca n move the train wreck over another fifty feet.’  He thought
of everything.” Mor gan “Bill” Evans, whose brother had lan dscaped the
property at Carolwood and who had been hired to landscap e the park,
recalled, “W alt’ s approach was to say , ‘I need a jungle,’ or , ‘I need a touch
of Alpin e flavor  for the sky ride.’ He didn’ t know which trees would work,
but he knew what he wanted.” H e wanted perfection. He wanted the park as
realized to match the park in his  mind’ s eye. Evans remembered a Saturday
morning when W alt complained that a Brazilian pepper tree had been
planted too close to the walk at t he entrance to Adventureland. Evans had to
pack up the six-ton root ball and move the tree.
Having come to dread the studi o, he cherished the park and the time he
spent there; he would even sit in the catering tent eating hot do gs with the
workers. Still, he was impatient  with the pace of construction and nervous
that guests might not see  wh ere the money and the ef fort had gone. He
wanted t he spen ding to show , and it bothered him that so much money was
invested in infrastructure. Sever al months before the opening he grumbled
to Harper Gof f, “Y ou know , I’ve  spent 50% of the total budget already , and
there is n’ t one thing you’d call terrific out there right now .” Gof f
remembered that W alt was actually crying when he said it. Another time,
watching the foundation being p oured for the Main Street train station with
Joe Fowler and Dick Irvine, he fumed, “By the time Joe g ets through
burying all our money under ground, we won’ t have a thing left for the
show!” He made a similar complaint when Fowler ordered a drydock dug