# Página 140  
never seen anybody so upset.” H e found the dog the next morning in Roy’ s
garage, where she apparently ha d gotten locked in when Roy returned home
from work. Thus was calm restored.
V
Then, early in 1 928, just as everything seemed to be going so well, came
one of the most devastating episodes in W alt Disney’ s life, an episode that
would haunt him throughout his  career . W ith Oswald’ s success, Mintz had
tired of W alt’ s financial haggli ng and his angling for control , especially
since W alt did n ot even draw anything himself now and, as Mintz saw it,
seemed superflu ous. So Mintz instructed Geor ge W inkler , who had arrived,
as promi sed, the previous July , to approach Hugh Harman about  taking over
the studio and relieving W alt of his duties. “I was interested right away ,”
Harman said, “because I was very disappointed in W alt and wanted to get
away fro m him.” W alt was comp letely oblivious to these machinations until
January , when Iwerks told him that W inkler , in anticipation of a renewal of
the Osw ald con tract with Universal, had already surreptitiousl y signed up
several of the animators and had asked Iwerks to join them —an of fer
Iwerks refused. Unaware of how much Mintz had come to  doubt his
importance or of how much his employees had come to dislike him, W alt
couldn’ t believe  that W inkler wo uld try to double-cross him or that his staf f
would actually conspire against him, and he dismissed the idea out of hand,
inadvertently wounding Iwerks by seeming to attack his credibility .
Meanwhile, on February 2, 1928, Mintz as expected signed a new three-
year agr eement with Universal to provide Oswalds. The Oswalds had been,
Film Daily  w rote in reporting the signing, “one of the best sellers of the ‘U ’
short subject program,” adding that “Charley Mintz’ s or ganization has been
delivering and how .” Still refusing to believe Mintz’ s treachery and
brimming with confidence, W a lt was in fact preparing to leave for New
Y ork to negotiate his  new contract wi th Mintz and had planned to ask for an
increase from $2,250 per film, which was what he had been r eceiving, to
$2,500. He was so certain of a favorable outcome, if not with Mintz then