# Página 549  
As m uch as W al t hated bureaucracy and corporate boxes and as much as
he saw them as jeopardizing his power , he permitted the studio to hire
Edward DeBord , an ef ficiency expert, to provide a reor ganization plan in
1941, af ter the strike. Like all th e others, this plan was never implemented,
but with  overhe ad as a percen tage of studio costs having ris en from 18
percent in 1942 to 30 percent in 1944, DeBord, presumably at Roy’ s and the
bankers’ behest,  returned to the  studio in the waning months of the war to
suggest how the Disneys could control costs and increase productivity .
Most of DeBord’ s recommendations were ef ficiency boilerplate : determine
a practical cost for every foot of film in the studio, then set strict budgets
for the shorts and features and stick to them; of fer incentive bonuses to
employees whos e films come in under budget; and streamline th e personnel
department and install a central casting department to coordinate
assignments of talent and prevent downtime. But one recommendation was
far more  problematic for W alt: DeBord suggested the appointment of a
general manager to coordinate the studio’ s operations.
W alt ag reed, albeit reluctantly—he had never wanted anyon e at the
studio to do any thing but execute his orders. He knew how much the studio
depended upon him, and he realized how much the burdens on him were
about to  increase with a revita lized operation. He also recognized how
badly the studio needed a new jolt of ener gy after the numbing routine of
the war . W alt and his staf f spent the better part of 1945 reviewing
candidates befor e settling on a forty-two-year -old Dartmouth-educated New
Y ork advertising executive named Jack Reeder , who had come
recommended by V ern Caldwel l. Reeder joined the studio that August as
the n ew vice pre sident and general manager , the first the company had ever
had, at a salary of $30,000. H e was followed the next mont h by a new
production and studio manager  named Fred Leahy , who had  worked at
Paramount for fifteen years before rising to production control manager and
then moving to MGM.
Other things changed as well. That December , W alt Disney , who had
always i gnored a ny kind of or ga nization plan, announced a new one for the
studio on the basis that he was so busy now , he was forced to delegate
authority . Henceforth a management committee with Reeder as chairman