# Página 692  
for the Mark T wain  Riverboat that would ply the Rivers of America. He
called it “Joe’ s Ditch.”
But con struction was only one front. While W alt was tending to the
building, wrang ler Owen Pope was gathering livestock from across the
country for Frontierland. (He a nd his wife Dolly would move  to the park
three days before its opening; W alt had given them a choice of their house
and a ten-acre plot for the anim als—about two hundred head at the time.)
And wh ile the Popes were ga thering their menagerie, staf f members at
WED were manufacturing the rides for the park. W alt had personally visited
the Arro w Development Company south of Palo Alto, which produced
mechanisms for amusement park rides and which would provide the
mechanisms for Disneyland’ s Snow White’ s Adventures, Mr . T oad’ s W ild
Ride, an d King Arthur Carousel, all of which the WED engineers would
decorate on the soundstages. An d while the staf f was decoratin g the rides,
Geor ge Whitney , W alt’ s amusement park consultant, was visiting parks and
factories and acquiring a merry-go-round from T oronto, horses from a
carousel at Coney Island, arcade  games, “Music Machines,” and a test track
for “dark rides” (that is, rides, like the Snow White and Mr . T oad
attractions, that  took passengers through a dark environment), and Nat
W inecof f was contracting for miniature cars from Germany for the Autopia
speedway in T omorrowland. And while Geor ge Whitney and Nat W inecof f
were acquiring rides, W alt was pressuring Casey Jones to get him a
locomotive; failing that, he pressured W ard Kimball to lease his locomotive
to the park. “He’d call all hours of the day and night,” Kimball said, with an
of fer tha t Kimball could engineer the train as much as he liked on Mondays,
when th e park would be closed. Kimball refused, so W alt built the trains
and bought locomotives.
And while they were frantically  engaged in all these activities, W alt and
Roy wer e also engaged in one m ore essential task: trying to ge t additional
money t o financ e them. Even b efore they had finalized the AB C deal, the
brothers were courting executives of major companies, escorting them
through the studio and making their Disneyland pitch for the companies to
lease concessions or underwrite attractions; among the wooed were
American Machine and Foundry , Coca-Cola, Pepsi-Cola, Ford Motors, B.