# Página 780  
the “striving father , heading the family” and Roy the “more relaxed
grandfather ,” providing a dose of wisdom; W alt was the brusque one who
drove ev eryone ruthlessly , while  Roy was the calm and personable one who
compensated for his brother ’ s severity .
But now , as they bickered over W alt’ s new contract, the years of
simmering animosity seemed to  boil to the surface. Roy clearly resented
W alt’ s imperious attitude and his willingness to wrest as much money as he
could from the company—the company they had built togeth er—as if it
were just another corporate safe  to be raided. W alt clearly resented Roy’ s
attempts to fence him in as if he were just another employee and not the
name in the co mpany’ s title and the creative force who w as chiefly
responsible for its success. Once Roy assumed the financial helm at the
studio, t he brothers had never t hereafter been particularly close. Since the
1930s, when their families wou ld gather on Sundays at W alt’ s  house and
occasionally vac ation together , they had seldom socialized, and they didn’ t
even sha re a lunch table at the  commissary . But as the 1961 negotiations
continued, the brothers stopped speaking to each other altog ether . Card
W alker became the intermediary . “W alt would tell him, ‘Y ou go down to
Roy and tell him  what I said,’” W alt Pfeif fer recalled, “and Roy would tell
Card what he said and [to] go back to W alt and tell him. I don’ t know how
long that lasted.”
In fact, it lasted for months—months of silence, anger , and recrimination
in which  W alt felt wounded an d Roy protested that he was only trying to
protect b oth W a lt and the com pany from disgruntled stockho lders. Some
felt that  the tension was further heightened by a rivalry between Roy E.,
who wo rked on the creative side  at the studio, and Ron Miller , whom W alt
had brought to the studio after Miller suf fered an injury during a brief
career in  professional football playing for the Los Angeles Rams. Whether
or not that was true, the situation certainly worsened considerably when,
during n egotiations, Loyd W rig ht threatened to hire W alt an agent who
might shop him to another studio, which Roy saw as an act of perfidy .
“That w as the first time I had wi tnessed Roy explode in anger ,” Bill Cottrell
said. It was also the final assault in the battle. When Cottrell reported