# Página 499  
But there was more. The bank was so fearful that Roy could no t control
W alt tha t Rosenber g insisted on the creation of an “executive committee,”
including a bank representative , that would, as Roy later explained it to
W alt, “f unction as the governing body of the Studio, where all matters of
general policy will be discussed  and agreed on before any action is taken.”
Roy added that while the bank didn’ t lack confidence in them, “they do
have qu alms a bout your ‘enthusiasm and possible plans for future
production’”—though it had been that enthusiasm that had built and
sustained the studio. Hal Adelquist, the head of personnel, and V ern
Caldwell, who worked under hi m, had even drawn up a new or ganization
chart. In ef fect, the studio was no longer W alt Disney’ s fiefdom. He was
now under the control of the businessmen.
What wa s especially galling in t his new arrangement was the moratorium
on f eature film production. Feature films had become the rea son for the
studio’ s existence. Just the year before, W alt had claimed that he had put the
studio o n a footing to release as many as nine features in two ye ars. Now he
was hav ing to shelve everything: the Mickey Mouse feature; Alice in
W onderland ; a film  based on the stories of Uncle Remus; another called
Lady ,  a bout the romance between a pedigreed dog and a street cur;  and a
film of the Sincl air Lewis story “Bongo.” They continued to proceed slowly
on W ind in the W illows,  one of t he films permitted beca use it was already in
production, though after mulling it over during Thanksgiving, W alt
informed Roy that he was going to make Peter Pan  instead because he
thought the two films would cost the same amount and the l atter would
have mo re box of fice appeal. In  the end, the studio soon stopped work on
that film too.
But the ef fects of the Bank of America weren’ t felt only on the
production schedule. The economies it demanded resulted in the shuttering
of all the studio restaurants save the commissary , the return of the IBM
machines they had rented, and the installation of a time clock—the clock
that W alt had s o dreaded in Kansas City . “It was like being in another
world!” Dave Hand would later write. “I think that that one decision [of the
time clo ck] ende d my closeness to W alt” because W alt insisted that Hand, a
supervisor and W alt’ s right-ha nd man, punch the clock with the other