# Página 538  
rather than ur ge Hand to stay , coolly called Roy and told him to cancel
Hand’ s contract—an admission that the resumption of feature animation
was not  immine nt. W alt spent m uch of the year traveling, bac k and forth
between Los Angeles and W ash ington, or to New Y ork—he too k a month-
long trip  there with Lillian late that May—and then went on a nother long
trip tha t August that was sch eduled to take them to Mexico, Cuba,
W illiamsbur g, V ir ginia, and then New Y ork again, though the Cuban leg
was late r cance led. (It was W a lt’ s first visit to the colonial recreation at
W illiamsbur g, and it left a deep  impression.) The main order of business,
besides just keeping the studio r unning, was the sequel to Saludos Amigos,
which had been titled The Thr ee Caballer os  after its three cartoon
protagonists—Donald Duck, a parrot named José Carioca, and a gun-toting
rooster named Panchito. As e arly as March, Roy had sho wn Nelson
Rockefeller stor yboards and played him recordings, but the stu dio missed
its June deadline, and in mid-July , W alt wired V ern Caldwell that he
couldn’ t give any definite date when the film would be completed. A lar ge
part of the delay could be attributed to the studio experimenting with new
techniques to combine a live actor with an animated character in the same
frame—just as W alt had done with far less sophistication in the old Alice
comedies.
The film wasn’ t completed unt il November , though when it w as, W alt
seemed pleased by the technological advances of the combined live-
action/animation and by the film’ s manic modernist ener gy , telegraphing
Rockefeller that “ IT MOVES WITH THE TEMPO OF AN EXPRESS
TRAIN. ” W ard Kimball , who had anima ted a song in the film in which , as
he r ecalled it, Donald Duck races frantically all over the screen and
sometimes right  past the edges, later called it the “one bit of animation that
I’m prou d of.” Director Gerry Geronomi disagreed. He didn’ t e ven want to
show the sequence to W alt, bec ause, Kimball said, Donald would run of f
the fram e on one side, only to reemer ge through the top of the frame—a
violation of the old Disney principle of realism.* Kimball told him to
“[s]tuf f it up your ass,” because the film was already overdue and because
W alt now  demanded to see all the footage. As Kimball related it, W alt saw
the scene and “h owled.” “He just thought it was so great. He said, ‘Jesus,