# Página 569  
contacted black leaders befor e  having the script written. Now , he said, there
would be a controversy that could have been avoided.
The con troversy was gaining momentum. One correspondent wrote
Breen that the b lack press was already prepared to launch an attack on the
film and  that the film might “ca use serious trouble for the indu stry .” W ith
this hint of tro uble W alt reverted to form. He asked an a ssociate to
determine if the black newspapers leading the protest were C ommunist-
controlled, and he apparently enlisted the FBI to find out why the black
community was harassing him, once again suspecting that Communists
were tar geting him. The FBI re sponded that Leon Hartwick, the theatrical
editor of the b lack paper Los Angeles Sentinel,  had launched his own
investigation into the Uncle Remus film and learned that the black actor
Clarence Muse had been asked by the studio to “render an expert opinion
on the contemp lated picture.” Muse said he told the studio that the black
characters were insuf ficiently d ignified, an objection that he said Disney
dismissed. Muse then appealed to black newspapers to protest th e film. This
was all W alt nee ded to know . In  W alt’ s version, Muse had come  to him and
said he wanted t o play Remus. W alt refused, and now Muse had launched a
personal vendetta with, no doubt, Communist assistance.
Ironically , W alt had had someone else in mind for Remus: the athlete,
singer , a ctor , and political activist Paul Robeson, whose politics were well
to the left of Mu se’ s. W alt had c ontacted Robeson as early as Fe bruary 1941
after see ing him  on the stage in Geor ge Gershwin’ s Por gy and Bess,  and
Robeson had agreed to review the general outline of the script and of fer
suggestions or criticisms. Thou gh the film was in hiatus after the war
began, W alt nevertheless kept  open his lines of communication with
Robeson, apolo gizing when he was unable to attend a r eception in
Robeson’ s hono r and saying how much he was looking forward to working
with him on Remus.  Somehow , possibly because of politics, Robeson was
no longer under consideration w hen W alt revived the film in 1944. Instead
he tested a number of other black actors—“practically every colored actor ,”
he once said—before finding, virtually by accident, forty-year -old James
Baskett, who had appeared on the Amos and Andy  ra dio program b ut had no
film experience.