# Página 681  
Reclamation of the past was not all that W alt Disney promoted on his
Disneyland  television program. He also of fered the appeal of
T omorrowland. While preparing the Disneyland  show , he instructed W ard
Kimball to hunt for subjects fo r the T omorrowland episodes, and Kimball
came up on a three-part series on space exploration, in Collier ’ s  magazine
by th ree of the foremost experts  on space, W ernher V on Braun , W illy Ley ,
and Heinz Haber . W alt read the series in one night and came to the studio
the next day fired with enthusia sm. He told Kimball to get V on Braun, Ley ,
and Hab er to the studio to pre pare the programs. The result w as another
three-part miniseries, beginning with an animated documentary called Man
in Space,  t hat  pre miered on March 9, 195 5. More than two years before the
Soviet Union launched its Sput nik satellite and heated up the space race,
Man in Space  w ent a long w ay toward building a lar ge constituency for
space exploration, and President  Eisenhower ordered that it be shown to his
rocket experts. At the end of 1955 W alt met with nuclear scientists Glenn
Seabor g, Edward T eller , and Ernest Lawrence about a program on atomic
ener gy , to be titled Our Frie nd the Atom,  t hat  wo uld have the same ef fect in
creating a consensus behind that technology . As a result W alt Disney , who
had beco me one  of the chief purveyors of American values fro m the past,
also became one of the chief popularizers of and cheerleaders fo r American
science in the future.
Whether or not Disney had, as W atts believed, really shaped an American
ideal—and he doubtless contribu ted to it—one could meaningfully speak in
the 1950s of “W alt Disney’ s America.” Evolving in the postwa r decade, as
the n ew W alt had, this America  drew on democratic traditions of modesty ,
self-ef facement, naïveté, and determination, which was wh at Crockett
personified. Y et it also was for ward-looking, evincing an almost childlike
confidence in science and techn ology , the very sorts of things that seemed
to th reaten those old democratic  traditions. On the one hand, it projected a
quaint, w hite-picket-fence nostalgia of the sort W alt had celeb rated in So
Dear to My Heart ; on the other , it  projected a futu ristic vision of the sort he
expressed in Man in Space.  Like W alt’ s own image, “W alt Disney’ s
America” was a confection and an aesthetic—smoothly blended from
Hollywood, Boo th T arkington, Horatio Alger , Norman Rockw ell, Thomas
Edison, and Buck Rogers—but in the same way that W alt ha d begun to