# Página 290  
themes of his young life, primarily the need to conquer the previous
generation to stake one’ s claim on maturity , the rewards of hard work, the
dangers of trust, and perhaps ab ove all, the escape into fantasy as a remedy
for inhospitable reality . (In discussing fairy tale conventions, psychologist
Bruno B ettelheim cited “stories that tell about an aging parent who decides
that the time has come to let the new generation take over . But before this
can happen, the successor must prove himself capable and worthy”—a
scenario that more or less fit bo th Snow White  and  the  life of W alt Disney ,
with the exception that in each case the parent was reluctant to yield.)
Though some analysts would apply a Freudian interpretation—one saw
Snow W hite as possessing “remnants of an anal obsessive personality” that
she had to ove rcome to achieve sexual maturity , and characterized the
dwarfs as desexualized children—and others imposed a cultural
interpretation in  which the film promoted Depression values of hard work
and com munity , the cartoon would ultimately become a parable of W alt
Disney’ s own young life. He  wa s Snow Wh ite, threatened by parental
jealousy and capricious power a nd forced into his own world, the world of
animation, where he would ultimately find nurturance, love, independence,
and authority . Snow White  was the story of W alt Disney’ s personal growth,
the story of what he had had to surmount and what he had achieved.  
Now he needed a version that would be adaptable for the screen. The
original, as retold by the Brothers Grimm, was too rudimentary ; the dwarfs
weren’ t even identified by name . The Mar guerite Clark film may have had
more vi vid elem ents—the film had been lost by the time W alt decided to
make his feature and he was relying on memory—and W alt did consult the
W inthrop Ame s play from which the film had been ada pted, even
eventually acquiring the rights for fear that he might be sued. Still, the
similarities were slight. He had also examined another Snow White  play ,
this one from 1913 by a woman named Jessie Braham White, and though he
used ver y little from it, he did borrow a few small touches: S now White
kissing t he dwar fs good-bye as they head of f to work, and the Queen, who