# Página 765  
down to  the Coral Room and h ave a good lunch. Then I want you to go
back to Burbank  Airport and get  in your Grumman Gulfstream a nd fly back
east where you came from and  stay there until I’ve got something I want
you to see. The n, I’ll call you.  Thank you, gentlemen.” And he turned
around and left the room.
The art director , Dick Irvine, would dismiss the Carousel of Progress as a
“refrigerator sho w ,” since it essentially hawked GE products. But W alt took
it ve ry s eriously , in part because the show , featuring a family e njoying the
advances of electricity from the turn of the century through the 1960s, gave
him a chance to experiment with Audio-Animatronic figures on an
unprecedented scale, and in part because it was a huge and unique
entertainment. W alt ordered a full-scale mock-up of the carousel to be built
in Glend ale, where WED had r elocated, and sculptor Blaine Gibson, who
helped fabricate the figures, said W alt would climb onto the stage and act
out the actions  the way he had once acted out the scenes from the
animations. For one scene, in which a visiting cousin was taking a bath and
wound up inventing air -conditio ning by placing a block of ice in front of a
fan, W alt jumped into the tub, mused about what a bather wou ld be doing,
then began wiggling his toes and extemporizing dialogue. “W alt had his
foot in everything,” Blaine Gib son recalled. “I would be working late at
night at the studio on something for the Fair and I would leave around 2
a.m. There he would be, in his pajamas and bathrobe—he  was there
reviewing our work and working on something.” As Joe Fowler put it,
“There w as mor e of W alt in the Carousel of Progress than in anything else
we’ve done.”
But as the fair grew closer , W alt was not content with just Ford  and GE.
Throughout 196 2 and into 1963 he was still approaching co mpanies to
sponsor a Circarama film, to no avail, and he and Charles Lu ckman met
with the  Deparm ent of Commerce in W ashington to sound them out about
installing the Hall of Preside nts in the United States pa vilion. The
department declined. He solicited Coca-Cola about sponsoring an Audio-
Animatronic attraction of birds at Disneyland, and he commissioned Buzz
Price to  do a feasibility study for a monorail for the fair that he hoped
would later become a perman ent part of the New Y ork transportation