# Página 128  
possibly because  he was just too timorous to make it so. He said he had a
toothache so painful that he could not sleep and spent the even ing helping
the porte r shine shoes until mor ning, when he found a dentist and had his
tooth pulled.
III
When W alt returned to the studio in August, he was riding a wave. The
trade reviews of the Alice comedies that summer and fall were positive,
occasionally bordering on enthusiastic: “Here is a clever cartoon novelty…
and should lend an acceptable variety to your program” ( Film Daily );
“Capital enterta inment is furnished by the first of the new s eries of the
‘Alice comedie s’” which show “plenty of invention by their creator”
( Motion Pictur e News ); “Each one of these W alt Disney cartoons…appears
to b e more im aginative and clever than the preceding [one]” ( Motion
Pictur e W orld ). It was a meas ure of the Alices’ success that V ir ginia Davis
had begun making personal appearances, and Geor ge W inkler informed
W alt that he was talking to publishers about a book tie-in for Christmas. In
fact, the  Disneys themselves were feeling confident enough about the future
that a week before W alt and Li llian’ s nuptials the brothers placed a $400
deposit on a plot of land with an of fice building on Hyperion A venue near
Grif fith Park, in the Silver Lake  district just east of Los Angeles and close
to K ingswell—W alt had let Roy  make the choice between that plot and one
in W estwood— where they intended to erect a lar ger studio than the
Kingswell storefront.
But if W alt began to feel as if he were finally secure that sum mer , the
feeling d idn’ t la st, and by the fall there were renewed tensions with Mintz.
Ostensibly the main problem again was money . W ith the new contract in
January , Mintz had accelerated the schedule, but W alt was so desirous of
getting the money from Mintz even more quickly , especially n ow that he
was mar ried and contemplating the new studio, that he was delivering the
films faster than the contract st ipulated, one every sixteen days instead of
every three weeks, and Mintz, j ust as desirous of holding on to his money ,
ordered W alt to desist. W alt an swered that so long as he did not deliver