# Página 412  
power , a nd they eventually bega n to wonder whether the film would ever be
made at all—a dread intensified  by the fact that, as they put it, “W alt never
came.”  
Now , as the studio was laborin g on Bambi, Pinocchio,  and The Concert
Featur e,  a  labor that ha d ended W alt’ s respite, there came an event that
would end the e bullient times for W alt Disney altogether . Eve r since they
had rece ived the fiftieth-annive rsary promise of a new home, Elias and
Flora Disney had been living in a rented apartment on Com monwealth
Street w hile they and Roy hunted for a suitable residence. They finally
found o ne that September—a brand-new home at 4605 Placedia in the
Hidden V illage section of North Hollywood on a 75-by-125-foot lot whose
owner had suddenly died, leavin g his widow to dispose of it for $8,300. It
had three bedrooms, two baths, a living room, and a double garage, but,
Roy wrote W alt, “more importa nt it has a good heating system”—a central
gas heat er with forced circulation. The brothers put down $2,30 0 and spent
between $2,500 and $3,000 to furnish the house, and their parents moved in
shortly thereafter .
But as soon as  Elias and Flor a moved in, the much vaunted  heating
system b egan to  malfunction. “W e better get this furnace fixed or else some
morning we’ll wake up and find ourselves dead,” Flora was said to have
told her  housekeeper , Alma Smith. Roy and W alt dispatched a workman
from the  studio to repair it. On the morning of November 26, 1938, Flora
went to the bath room adjoining her bedroom. When she didn’ t return, Elias
got u p to  investi gate and found h er collapsed on the bathroom fl oor . Feeling
overcome hims elf, he staggered out into the hallway and fainted.
Downstairs in the courtyard A lma Smith was emptying a dustpan of
oatmeal that she had spilled when she felt herself getting woozy and
realized that something was amiss. She rushed back into the  house and
raced up the sta irs, found Elias on the floor , called a neighbor , and then
phoned Roy . Meanwhile she tried to open the window , but it was stuck.
Then sh e and the neighbor dragged Flora and Elias down the stairs and