# Página 665  
long Christmas broadcast featur ing W alt hosting several cartoons as well as
a scene from the upcoming Alice in W onderland,  which Roy believed would
not only give the film a “tremendous send-of f” but allow them to “find out a
lot abou t televis ion that we don ’ t know now .” The program, s et for NBC,
would c ost abou t $100,000, all of which would be paid by Coc a-Cola, but
Roy , sounding very much like th e old W alt, advised that “you think in terms
of p ouring every dollar they give us into the show…. Give th em a socko
show th at will be the talk of the industry—or even broader than that—the
talk of the enter tainment world.” Whether it was the talk of the industry or
not, W alt acquitted himself well. Jack Gould in The New Y ork T imes  wrote,
“W alt D isney ca n take over tel evision any time he likes,” and  called the
show “o ne of the most engaging and charming programs of the year .” But
what the special really did was prove that W alt’ s thesis about the value of
television to the film industry was correct. A Gallup poll indicated that the
program created new awareness  of Alice  a nd prompted W alt to talk abo ut
using TV “for point of sale.”
What W alt wanted, though, was a regular series that would pump a
regular stream of income into the studio. A few months after the special, he
gathered a group in his of fice to discuss a half-hour program, and though
W alt immediate ly began waf fling, citing the dif ficulty of p roducing a
weekly program and wondering who would be able to exe cute it, he
char ged the staf f with developing three show ideas by the end of the year .
Roy wa s also working the television front. That May he met with Jules
Stein, the head of the Music Corporation of America. MCA was the most
powerful talent agency in the country , and for years, even before television
was a going pr oposition, Stein had been dogging the Disney s, trying to
interest them in having him represent them in the medium and of fering to
seek sponsors for a Disney series. Roy found Stein “glib and of fhand”—
W alt cal led him  the “octopus” b ecause he seemed to have his tentacles in
everything—and said that every  time he talked with him, he got the “feeling
of fearing to get  in his clutches,”  à la Pat Powers. But Roy was nevertheless
willing to agree because he feared that if the studio didn’ t act quickly , other
film companies would move int o the breach. His only stipulati on was that
the term of the agreement be short.