# Página 686  
could do  it; when Kintner expressed confidence that W alt could, he waved
of f Roy’ s protests. Of course W alt wasn’ t the one who would have to do the
work. Hal Adelquist, Bill W alsh, and Perce Pearce were the people actually
char ged with creating and then running the program while W alt issued
approvals and made comments.  Indeed, by February 1955, Adelquist and
W alsh had prepared preliminary  outlines for the first one hundred shows,
which W alt had only to review .
The Mi ckey M ouse Club  ha d been co nceptualized with recurring
segments—a ch ildren’ s newsreel, a talent show , serials on the Hardy Boys
and Spin  and Marty , and a daily  cartoon from the Disney libra ry—but the
real innovation was the casting. Kintner had wanted a regu lar host to
function as W alt had functioned on Disneyland.  Mo st likely eith er W alsh or
Adelquist decide d instead to hire  a group of young performers, though W alt
warned W alsh not to choose “those kinds with tightly curled hairdos.” He
preferred childre n “who look like they’re having fun,” even if they didn’ t
have professional skills. Then they could be taught to sing and dance. And
W alt su ggested that W alsh recruit by going to schoolyards, watching
children at recess, and seeing w hich one drew his attention. W hen W alsh
said tha t the child might not have any talent, W alt countered that the one
W alsh found himself watching w ould have “star quality .” “The t alented kids
on the Mickey Mouse Club will be called MOUSEKETEERS, ” W alt
memoed Adelquist that April, “while the adults will be known as
MOOSKETEERS  [ sic ].”
The Mu sical Mooseketeer , who  served as the master of ceremonies, was
a th in, boyish, sandy-haired composer named Jimmie Dodd. W alsh had
picked him, but knowing how proprietary W alt was, he told Dodd, “W e’ve
got to let W alt discover you.” So he invited Dodd to a story session W alt
was atte nding and had him perf orm a song he had written for a  Disneyland
segment. “Hey , Jim is the one who should be on ‘The Mickey Mouse
Club’!” W alt told W alsh. Dodd also wound up writing the program’ s theme
song, “The Mickey Mouse Club  March,” with its signature spe lling out of
Mickey’ s name:  “M-I-C-K-E-Y —Why? Because we like you—M-O-U-S-
E.” The Big Mooseketeer and Dodd’ s sidekick was Roy W illiams, a lumpy
bear of a man—“fat and funny lookin’,” W alt called him—who  had been a