# Página 557  
figures, and Marc Davis felt tha t W alt “didn’ t feel warmly tow ards those.”
In a ddition, the lovely but prohibitively expensive blendin g that had
provided a chiaroscuro ef fect in the early features was gone, and so was the
round, s oft tactil e quality that ha d made those earlier images see m so warm
and cute . In their place were a sharper line and a brighter , har der surface.
And if W alt didn’ t care for these new compilation packages, th e animators
didn’ t care much for them either . “[W]e at the studio there kind of
laughingly joke d about them as W alt’ s remnant sale!” Ben Sharpsteen
recalled. The critics were no kinder . Even Bosley Crowther of The New
Y ork T imes  felt disappointment, calling the film an “experience in
precipitate ups and downs” and scolding Disney for “adjusting his art to
what he  conside rs the lower tas te of the mass audience” by using bathetic
popular music in the film rath er than the classical pieces of Fantasia.
W riting in The Nation,  James Agee, no fan of Disney now , thought it
“tacky” and said the film “sicke ns” him, though probably not a s much as it
must have sickened W alt.
Nevertheless, given its cost, Make Mine Music  di d reasonably well at the
box of fic e, which encouraged the studio to produce more compilation films,
though W alt’ s sudden enthusiasm for bundling new shorts and repackaging
old o nes was also an indication of the studio’ s creative bankrupt cy . Another
“remnant sale,” Fun and  Fancy Fr ee  w as already in production at the time
when Make Mine Music  was released in the early spring of 1946. It
incorporated two stories, one about Bongo, a circus bear who finds himself
back in the wild where he has to use his wiles, introduced by Jiminy
Cricket, and Mickey and the Beanstalk,  narrated by ventriloquist Edgar
Ber gen, one of the very few people with whom W alt socialized. Both stories
had bee n kickin g around the studio for years— Mickey and the Beanstalk
since at least 1940, when W alt w as vainly searching for ways to revive his
mouse b y starrin g him in a series of fairy tales. At the time Bill Cottrell and
another storyman with the improbable name of T . Hee (actually Thornton
Hee) had presented the story to  W alt and, as Hee later told it, W alt “burst
out laughing, tears running dow n the side of his face,” and call ed in others
to h ear the pres entation. But when Cottrell and Hee asked how soon it
would be put into production, W alt said it wouldn’ t. As much as he liked it,
W alt told them that “you murd ered my characters” and “destroyed what