# Página 550  
would make business decisions.  On the creative side there was to be a tight
chain of command leading from  Harry T ytle (who was to supervise shorts
production), W a lt Pfahler (who was to manage production ser vices), Jack
Lavin (who was to negotiate talent contracts), and Chuck W olco tt (who was
to serve  as musical director), u p to Fred Leahy and from Leahy to W alt
himself. Meanwhile W alt said he would be resigning as the president of
W alt Di sney Productions, his nominal title, to become chairman of the
board, while Roy assumed th e presidency and Reeder assumed Roy’ s
duties. W alt even announced t hat a new or ganizational chart was being
drawn up for distribution throughout the company .
This announcement sparked what amounted to a reor ganization fever
over the next eighteen months, which W alt seemed to have legitimized
because he believed that the studio was beginning to rev up again. In
addition to establishing the management committee and reassigning the
staf f, he  installed Ub Iwerks as head of a department called Special
Processes and Camera to devel op new ef fects, and he later created a new
Animation Board, composed of  top animators personally selected by W alt,
that was entrusted with helping advise W alt on other animators  and devise
policy on the fo rthcoming animations. (Of course, for those not selected,
this board was yet another so urce of resentment and another blow to
morale.) It had nine members: Les Clark, Marc Davis, Ollie Johnston, Milt
Kahl, W ard Kim ball, Eric Larson, John Lounsbery , W oolie Reitherman, and
Frank T homas, the latter two o f whom had recently returned t o the studio
from mi litary se rvice. In a jokin g aside W alt once dubbed the members of
the Ani mation Board his “nine old men,” after President Franklin
Roosevelt’ s refe rence to the nine members of the Supreme Court. The
group would be known as the “Nine Old Men” thereafter .
But havi ng set up what seemed to be a formalized bureaucratic structure,
W alt wa s clearly  ambivalent about it. He didn’ t want to surrender his own
prerogatives. Harry T ytle claim ed that neither W alt nor Roy had done the
paperwork for Reeder ’ s appoin tment, even as their new general manager
was abo ut to report to the studio, and that W alt initially wasn’ t going to
issue a memo an nouncing Leahy’ s hiring, preferring to wait unti l Leahy had
arrived and W alt had discussed  his duties with him before telling anyone.