# Página 307  
always e dging—he intensified the training. Besides the night classes, the
screenings, and the action-analysis sessions headed by Graha m and Phil
Dike, W alt enlisted the older an imators to give instruction to the younger
ones—“to discuss with them T iming [and] means of obtaining certain
ef fects…[I]n thi s way I hope to stir up in this group of men an enthusiasm
and a knowledge of how to achieve results that will advance them rapidly .”
(W alt later wrote Graham; “Immediately following these talks, I have
noticed a great change in animation.”) He asked Joe Grant, a young artist
who had specialized in caricat ure, to teach a “Caricature C lass” where
animators wouldn’ t just take instruction but would share  ideas. He
expanded courses to include other artists: Jean Charlot on composition,
Rico Le brun on drawing animal s, and Faber Birren on theories of color . He
invited guest lecturers to the s tudio, including notables like the architect
Frank Lloyd W right. He expa nded his visual library so tha t animators
wanting to see various animals  or objects in motion could have films of
them run in a sweatbox. He even had Graham take the animators on a
monthly excursion to the zoo to observe the animals. “I am convinced that
there is a scientific approach to t his business,” W alt wrote Graham in a long
memo that December , “and I think we shouldn’ t give up until we have
found out all we can about how to teach these young fellows th e business.”
“A creative structure was being built,” remembered I. Klein, wh o worked at
the stud io then, “an analytical, educational and artistically functional ‘belt
line’ for  producing animated cartoon films to compete with live action films
and to go beyond the limitation s of human actors.” Animator J ohn Hubley
put it more succ inctly: The studio was “like a marvelous big R enaissance
craft hall.”
Nor was the ins truction restricte d to visuals. W alt believed that  he could
give the same sc ientific treatme nt to the narrative side, so in May 1935 he
recruited Dr . Boris Morkovin , the chairman of the department of
cinematography at the Universit y of Southern California, to conduct classes
anatomizing the gag and subjecting it to the sort of scrutiny to which
Graham was subjecting action. As Morkovin put it, “W alt’ s idea is that he
has to prepare his young artists just as the U.S.C. football team is prepared.”
Morkovin claimed to have classified over two hundred gags into thirty-one
basic typ es, thou gh all were united by one basic idea: “Shock is  the soul of