# Página 337  
Snow White herself to the dwarfs’ cottage to the furniture inside the cottage
to the forest. Ob sessed with his drawings and lashed to his board, he arrived
at the studio pun ctually at eight o’clock each morning, drew frantically and
chain-smoked cigars, stayed until exactly five o’clock each afternoon, and
never socialized with the staf f o r apparently had much of a life beyond his
work, though some believed it was because he suf fered from s evere heart
disease and felt he had to conserve his ener gy . On weekend excursions
Larson a nd his wife occasionally ran into Hurter driving furiously across
the desert, seemingly headed nowhere.
But W al t valued him and early on entrusted him with designing virtually
everything in the film, even hav ing him provide preliminary sketches of the
characters. “I remember quite clearly [W alt] looking at some old things
[Hurter had drawn],” Eric Larso n said, “and he’d just go hog wild and give
Albert a lot more things for Albert to work out.” That made  Hurter the
closest thing to a visual mastermind on Snow White —the on e who devised
the overall Germanic look of the film by incorporating European illustration
and painting techniques into the animation. In ef fect, he served as set
designer , set decorator and costumer , and though Dave Hand as supervising
director gave the head of the la yout department, Sam Armstro ng, nominal
authority on “all prop coloring, background, figures, etc.,” Hurter had
specific authority to approve the style and the characters fro m scene to
scene and make sure they were consistent. As Hand put it when W alt
objected to some rocks in a background that Hurter had not okayed, “Albert
knows the character of the picture better than anyone.”
But if Hurter was the mastermin d, he was nevertheless part of a team that
was dedicated to W alt’ s vision o f a more sophisticated visual fie ld. Another
European-born artist, Hungarian Ferdinand Horvath, provided preliminary
drawings, and by the time animation was under way in 1936, Hurter and
Horvath had been joined by th e highly regarded Swedish-born illustrator
Gustaf T enggre n, who helped conceptualize Snow White’ s flight in the
forest and the dw arfs’ pursuit of the peddler woman. Because t hese artists’
renderings were so much more detailed than the backgrounds o f the shorts,
the studi o had to introduce a new size of animation paper—from  9½ by 12
inches to 12½ by 12 inches—to accommodate them, and because they were