# Página 194  
expressive of wholeness since his face, a “trinity of wafers and the circular
symbol,” unites the irreconci lable. Paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould
applied to Mickey anthropologist Konrad Lorenz’ s ar gument that certain
features of juvenility—“a relatively lar ge head, predominance of the brain
capsule, lar ge and low lying ey es, bulging cheek region, short and thick
extremities, a springy elastic consistency , and clumsy movemen ts”—trigger
innate r esponses of af fection, so that Mickey Mouse, who ha d all these
characteristics, was virtually constructed to elicit love.
Children’ s author Maurice Sendak located Mickey’ s appeal in his
plasticity . Sendak found in the early Mickey cartoons, which featured
“kicking the ass, pulling the ears, tweaking noses, twisting  necks,” a
“passionate investigation of the body .” “Eminently gropable” in Sendak’ s
view , and like a baby , Mickey finally gave the viewer the “license to touch.”
New Y ork T imes  film reviewer and later screenwriter Frank Nugent took a
dif ferent slant on the theme of plasticity . He believed that Mickey Mouse
“stole” screen slapstick from i ts live practitioners and then extended it
because his elasticity exceeded theirs, and that it was slapstick  that made
the cartoons appealing.
Other observers traced Micke y’ s appeal to the way he summoned
memories of childhood in the vi ewer himself: “the spirit of the child in man
[which] would delight in caricaturing all those heroes whom ordinarily we
should r egard with awe and re verence,” as Harvard professor Robert D.
Feild w rote. A Dr . A. A. Brill , writing in 1934, thought Mic key Mouse
“narcotized” his adult audience  by taking them back to childhood, when
“everything cou ld still be attained through fantasy ,” as Mickey attains
things. Another doctor , drawing on Freud, called Mickey an “ego ideal”
who appeals to that part of childhood that is happy .
One of the most popular veins of analysis was the idea of Mi ckey as a
representation o f freedom, which was inherent in the animati on medium
itself. “He can break all natural laws (he never breaks moral laws) and
always w in,” ob served T ime  in 1933 . “He lives in the mom ent, has few
inhibitions.” It was not too great a stretch from this freedom to
incorrigibility—Mickey as “quick and cocky and cruel, at best  a fresh and