# Página 153  
wheel, t ooting the pipes and whistling. Eager to see whether sound would
augment the cartoon as he ha d anticipated, W alt had the s cene inked,
painted, and filmed even before the rest of the animation was completed,
then recruited Jackson, who was the only member of the staf f with any
musical talent, to play “T urkey in the Straw ,” one of Jackson’ s favorite
tunes, and “Steamboat Bill,” W alt’ s choice, on the harmonica.
One night, probably in late June, at about eight o’clock, W alt had a
projector set up in the yard behind the studio bungalow so that the whirring
of the machine would not contend with the accompaniment.* The image
was thrown through a window and onto a bedsheet hung in a lar ge room of f
of W alt’ s of fice where the back grounds were drawn. He stationed Jackson
with his harmonica, animator Johnny Cannon, who could m ake sound
ef fects with his mouth, and sev eral other staf f members behind his of fice
door , which had a window in i t that allowed them to see the back of the
bedsheet. When Roy started the projector , Jackson played his music,
Cannon made his sounds, and the others banged pencils against spittoons
that served as gongs—all synchronized to Mickey’ s actions. They
performed repea tedly so that each of the participants could witness the
ef fect for himself. And with an appreciation for the magnitude of the event
—the fate of the studio rested on the outcome—they had an audience. W alt
had invited Lillian, Edna, Iw erks’ s wife Mildred, Hazel Sewell, and
Jackson’ s girlfri end, later wife, Jane Ames, to watch what he h oped would
be a historic occasion.
“I never  saw such a reaction in an audience in my life,” th e usually
taciturn Iwerks would recall, citing encore after encore. “T he scheme
worked perfectly . The sound itself gave the illusion of something  emanating
directly from the screen.” W alt was exultant. He kept saying, “This is it, this
is it! W e’ve got it!” By the time the show finally ended, it was two in the
morning, and the guests, hearing Jackson play his two tunes and hearing the
staf f hit the spittoons again and again, had gotten bored and dri fted into the
hallway , which only antagonized W alt. “Y ou’re out here ta lking about
babies a nd we’re in here maki ng history ,” he reportedly groused. Iwerks
said he had nev er been so exhilarated, claiming years later that “nothing
since ha s ever equaled it.” It was “real intoxication,” and like W alt, he said