# Página 394  
Having secured his sprawling tract set against the Hollywood Hills, W alt
was no more inclined to erect another slapdash studio like Hyperion than he
was incl ined to produce slapdash animation. Planned from scratch, the new
studio w as going to be perfect, the physical realization of his long-held
dream for an animation utopia. T o design it, he hired not a conventional
architect but a lugubrious-looking German-born industrial designer named
Kem W eber whose primary experience in architecture had been drawing
sets and occasionally planning buildings for Paramount. Having under gone
an a rtistic conversion during a trip back to Europe in the mid-19 20s, W eber
had become an exponent of the Moderne style, which sought to express the
zeitgeist of technology in architectural form—clean, sleek, and streamlined
like an airplane, with no ornate flourishes. It seemed the appropriate style
for an industry that combined art with technology , not to mention for a
studio chief who always regarde d himself as forward-looking, and it was a
style W a lt clearl y hoped would have a positive psychological impact on the
employees as well since, as W eber would later write of W alt’ s i nstructions,
the “com fort of mind and the ha ppiness in the place of your work depends
not only  upon pure, practical, and functional solutions but a lso on their
appearance.”
W eber , for whom the Disney project was by far his lar gest commission to
date, wa s describ ed as the studio ’ s “supervising designer ,” but W alt was not
about to  let anyone’ s vision supersede his own. No less than Snow White,
this was his  dream. “W alt planned out very carefully ,” recalled Ben
Sharpsteen. “He planned out the buildings, he made mock-ups of the units
on t he ground w ith the old stu dio and called anybody in that wanted to
contribute with ideas…. He wen t to as much work on that as he did in the
creative side of his pictures.” Because he wanted it to be a workers’
paradise, he not only solicited s uggestions from his employees but actively
brought them into the process. Frank Thomas remembered W alt calling
back the staf f for night meeting s at Hyperion, where he had a l ayout of the
new stud io and models of the buildings. “He’d say , ‘How abo ut if we put
the t heater here, the animation b uilding there, the restaurant here, the sound
stage there, the orchestra stag e, the camera department, ink and paint,
cutting, process  lab, all those things.’ W e would move all those models
around, then someone would say , ‘What do you do in rainy wea ther?’” And