# Página 71  
cartooning, art was almost a wa y to avoid social contact by focusing on his
drawing board. At Pesmen-Ru bin, where Iwwerks had arrived about a
month after W alt, they had be en acquaintances rather than friends, and
Iwwerks even seemed to resent W alt’ s self-absorption. He once remarked
that whi le he and the other artis ts played poker during breaks, W alt would
sit at his board practicing various renditions of his signature.
But if Iwwerks seemed to flinch from the world while W alt em braced it,
his d if fidence was understanda ble. “He just didn’ t have a childhood that
was anything that he was happy  about,” one of his sons would say . He had
been bo rn in Kansas City on March 24, 1901, to a local girl and a fifty-
seven-year -old Dutch immigrant who earned his living as a ba rber . It was
his father ’ s third marriage, and Ubbe was his fourth child. He had
abandoned the others, and Evert Iwwerks was to leave Ubbe’ s  mother too
when the boy w as in high scho ol, forcing Ubbe to end his education and
take a job at the Union Bank Note Co. making lithographs to support her .
(Iwwerks never spoke of his father and rebuf fed any talk about him; when
Evert Iwwerks died and Ubbe w as asked how he wanted to dispose of the
body , he reportedly said, “Throw it in a ditch.”) He left Kansas City briefly
to do farmwork in Arkansas, the n returned late in 1919 and took the job at
Pesmen-Rubin, but he had been so remote and his life so sheltered that his
mother once scolded Louis Pesmen for introducing her son to Coca-Cola.
Iwwerks’ s remoteness and social awkwardness, however , made him a
perfect complem ent for W alt Disney , which is no doubt wh y Iwwerks
sought him out. While Iwwe rks, who was diligent, meticulous, and
extremely facile with the brush, stayed at his drawing board, W alt could talk
up customers and hustle business. In one version of the story W alt told, he
went right out to  printers and qu ickly landed jobs designing letterheads and
theater ads. In another version he first made an arrangement with The
Restaurant News,  a  giveaway pub lished by the K ansas City branch of the
National Restau rant Association that had evolved out of an ef fort by local
restaurateurs to combat strikes by joining forces. Even here, however , the
deal was not ent irely the result o f W alt’ s persuasiveness or charm, ef fective
as these were; Clem Carder , the brother of the president of the association,
Al C arder , was a  neighbor of the  Disneys on Bellefontaine. W ith this entree