# Página 494  
W ithin a month Rockefeller an d Whitney upped the ante. Th ey asked
W alt to take a go odwill trip to South America, where he was obv iously well
known and well liked. It is unclear whether the trip was originally intended
as anyth ing oth er than a kind of ambassadorial mission, but by the time
W alt ag reed, it had become a filmmaking venture as well. The
Coordinator ’ s O f fice would underwrite the entire cost of the trip for W alt
and a group of h is artists and pay for the films that W alt would ultimately
make. W alt called it a “combined ‘business and pleasure’ trip” and, despite
the work, said he hoped to “get in a good rest at odd times.” Of course, the
films and the rest were a bonus. Mainly W alt just wanted to for get the
studio. “W e don’ t know whether we’ll have jobs there when we get back
there!” he joked sourly .
The group (W alt, Lillian, and seventeen associates including Norm
Fer guson, Bill Cottrell, T ed Sea rs, and W ebb Smith) left Los Angeles on a
DC -3  on Aug ust 1 1 and hopscotched  across the country , stopping i n Fort
W orth, N ashville, and Jacksonv ille before arriving in Miami, where they
took a Sikorsky flying boat across the Caribbean to San Juan, P uerto Rico.
The nex t morning they left ab oard a Boeing Strato Clipper for Belém,
Brazil, a remote outpost at the mouth of the Amazon River . “W e landed for
refueling in some little place cut out of the jungle in Braz il,” Cottrell
remembered. “And there were hundreds and hundreds of school children
there to greet W alt. They knew w ho W alt Disney was. They might not have
known who the president of their own country was, but they all knew W alt
Disney .” From Belém they flew  to Rio de Janeiro, where they stayed ten
days. The stated idea was to soak up atmosphere for the film s the studio
intended to produce on South American customs and folklore. But the real
business seemed  to be displayi ng W alt Disney to adoring fans  and South
American aristocrats, including heads of state. As Frank Th omas said,
“Mainly we were wined and din ed all over the place, where it w as real hard
to do any work.”
From R io the group descended upon Buenos Aires, Ar gentina, where
they hunkered down for the next month in a lar ge room on the top floor of
the Palace Hotel to begin plotting out the films. Here they drew up
storyboards, entertained locals with ideas for the movies, and  listened to