# Página 710  
decided to leave too. When Adelquist obsequiously petition ed W alt to
return n ot long thereafter—“I’ m not particular about the kind of work
involved”—W alt refused. Jack Kinney , who had been at the s tudio since
1931, fir st as an animator , then as a director of sequences in Pinocchio  and
Dumbo,  and  then  as director of most of the Goofy cartoons, was laid of f  and
later lef t the studio. The wife o f another former Disney sketch artist sent
W alt a silver Ma donna in the ho pe that he might buy it to finance a cataract
operation that the artist needed to save the sight in his only good eye. W alt
of fered to buy it for $100. “I do not believe we are justified, in view of the
market, to make the price any higher ,” he wrote her .
The man  who had once been so  collaborative now brooked no dissent at
the studio. When the young w riter of the Beethoven film su ggested an
approach that dif fered from W alt’ s, he gave her a chilling  look, then
slammed his fist on the desk, se nding books and papers to the floor . “In the
ominous silence, Disney’ s face hardened,” she later wrote. “He said coldly
that the conference was over .” Even a longtime employee like storyman Bill
Peet felt  W alt’ s  lash—not because Peet was out of phase with W alt but,
W ard Ki mball th ought, because  he was too closely in phase wit h him. Peet
would make a presentation, according to Kimball, and then W alt would
“pick aw ay at little details.” So Peet would change the material, and two
weeks la ter W alt  would return to Peet’ s room to say , “I don’ t think it should
be this way ,” and then “outline exactly word for word the way Bill had it
originally .” But, said Kimball, the “unwritten law was that you couldn’ t
point thi s out to W alt…. That’ s like putting your head in the tig er ’ s mouth.
This we nt on all the time.” Peet  himself said he had been warned early on,
“Once you get in W alt’ s doghouse, you may never get out,” as Peet
discovered when he refused to redo a sequence in the new Sleeping Beauty
and W alt exiled him to animate a Peter Pan Peanut Butter commercial.
W alt’ s eruptions at the studio no w were more frequent, his tem per more
easily lost. When Harper Gof f for got to make a medallion for the seal in
20,000 Leagues,  W alt, according to director Richard Fleischer , “blasted him
up o ne side and down the other ,” and Gof f ran of f “like a sca lded cat” to
remedy the mistake. On the same film W alt had assigned the matte artist
Peter Ellenshaw to work with a veteran special ef fects man. Ellenshaw