# Página 33  
transgression, but W alt admitted that he enjoyed these subversive
adventures, no doubt because they did rile his father .)
The boy was ev en more enthused over visits from his uncle  Edmund
Disney , Elias’ s younger brother . Edmund was retarded; he was incapable
even of signing his name. But h e was an amiable man and free spirit who
frequently left his sisters, Lizzie  and Ethel, with whom he lived in Kansas,
and wen t roami ng. Marceline was one of his regular stops, and he would
show up  unexpectedly at the Disney door announcing, “It’ s me !” W alt said
Edmund made a wonderful pla ymate for an eight-year -old boy since that
was about Ed’ s mental age. Ed had no inhibitions. “Uncle Ed did everything
he w anted to do,” W alt observed . “He wanted to go to town, he would walk
over to the railroad track and the train would be comin’ up. And he’d flag it.
The train would stop. He’d say , ‘I want a ride.’ He’d get up and go on to
town.” T he two  would also ve nture into the woods, where E d knew the
names of the pla nts and birds an d could identify the latter ’ s calls. And then,
after wh at was typically a short visit, he would declare that he w as going to
see another relative and would leave. W alt admired this sense  of juvenile
freedom—Ed was a real-life Peter Pan—but he also loved his uncle’ s joy ,
and he considered Ed a role model. “T o me he represented  fun in its
simplest and purest form.”
If Edmu nd’ s visits were breezy reminders of the Disney wa nderlust,
Uncle Robert’ s frequent visits to  view his property were reminders of their
pretensions. W e aring a linen du ster and sporting a V andyke, he would step
of f t he train as if he were a sovereign, which is exactly how he acted toward
his older brother . Robert kept a buggy at Elias’ s farm, and Elias was
expected to surrender it. Whether or not Elias was resentful, at least some of
his neig hbors were, and they r eferred to Robert disparagingly as “Gold
Bug,” both for h is airs and for the gold stock in which he traded. Still, W alt
enjoyed these visits because Ro bert’ s wife, Aunt Mar garet—th e only aunt,
W alt sai d, whom he called “au ntie”—would usually bring a gift, a Big
Chief drawing tablet and pencils.
For most children these gifts might have seemed perfunctory . For W alt
they came to represent something else of importance he took from