# Página 763  
fabrication of the attraction. But no one at WED thought W alt was
motivated prima rily by money . Donn T atum, a Disneyland exe cutive who
was invo lved in  the world’ s fai r planning, said that W alt had gathered the
WED s taf f, told them about the world’ s fair , and char ged them with
devising attractions because, W alt said, “It will help us. W e’ll learn a lot
and it will give us a chance to d evelop technology we’re worki ng on.” Bill
Cottrell, who also worked on the fair , thought that W alt s aw it as a
showcase for what WED could do as a kind of engineering firm and also as
a comm ercial for Disneyland, especially since W alt was hoping to move
some of the attra ctions to the pa rk after the fair under the sponsorship of the
corporations. Another WED em ployee, Marty Sklar , believed that W alt was
using the fair as a “trial balloon” for future plans. “He wanted,” Sklar said,
“to see if his kind of entertainment would appeal to the more sophisticated
eastern audience—‘sophisticated’ in that that’ s where the nation’ s leaders,
the deci sion-makers were base d.” And there may have been one more
consideration, th is one psychological: the fair , like Disneyland before it,
allowed W alt to hole up with h is Imagineers in yet another sm all, creative
enterprise where he could enjoy their camaraderie and actually see the
uncompromised results of his own imagination now that even Disneyland
had outgrown its origins.
At least that was what he may have expected. In actuality the planning
would take years, nerves would be frayed, and W alt’ s own visions would be
beset by  corpora te interference. The first to commit was Ford. W alt tried to
get the compan y to sponsor hi s Hall of Presidents, but Ford rejected the
idea. Instead, W alt and the Imag ineers devised a twelve-minute trip through
the histo ry of invention using 160 Ford convertibles to “drive” through
tableaux of Audio-Animatronic figures. (Ford had suggested the cars be
chauf feur -driven; W alt, realizing the impossibility of such a system,
recommended that the cars be a utomated, and according to head engineer
Roger B roggie, he himself had t he idea that the cars be pulled b y a series of
under ground wh eels, after he saw a hot ingot at the Ford  factory in
Dearborn, Mich igan, being sent down a system of rollers.) Still, all was not
entirely peaceful. When, after nearly a year of planning, W alt and a small
delegation from WED accompa nied a prototype of the attraction to Ford’ s
Dearborn headq uarters and demonstrated it to Henry Ford II, Ford got up,