# Página 127  
After a courtship that lasted at least a year , the decision to get married,
like the decision to date, also seemed to come by default—fulfilling an
obligation. Even decades later W alt was less than sentimental about the
betrothal. “How do you know it’ s not just a need for companionship?” he
would ask his daughter abo ut marriage. Roy suspected that W alt
appreciated Lillian’ s compliant nature. “W alt was a dominating person. And
she was the kind that just went along with him and what he did,” he would
later say . “She worshiped him, and anything he wanted to do w as all right
with her .” W alt himself agreed t hat Lillian was a “good listener . I’d talk to
her about what I’d hope to do, and she’d listen.” By the time he began
thinking about proposing, Lillian had advanced from inking cels to helping
Roy ma nage the  studio’ s business of fice, and even she later joked that she
made so many mistakes while she was taking dictation that W alt said he had
to m arry her to relieve the studio of her , though at another time s he said that
W alt had decided to marry he r because he was in debt to her for the
paychecks he had asked her not to cash when the studio’ s c of fers were
empty . As W alt told it, he propo sed indirectly—by asking Lillian to choose
between their pitching in to buy a new car or a ring, as he had once asked
Bea Con over whether he should buy a canoe or a camera. Lill ian said the
ring, so Roy and W alt found a wholesale diamond dealer who for seventy-
five doll ars sold them a ¾ carat diamond mounted on a thin pla tinum band
and surr ounded by blue sapphires. “It looked like a locomotive headlight to
me,” W alt said.
The couple’ s plan was to wait, but after Roy had married and left W alt
the apartment, Lillian said they moved up the schedule because “W alt didn’ t
like to be alone.” Early that Ju ly they took a steamer to Seattle, then the
train to Lewiston—in preparati on W alt had taken $150 in cash from the
studio a nd unila terally increase d his salary to $75 a week, $25  more than
Roy’ s—where they were marri ed at Lillian’ s brother ’ s house in a small
ceremony on July 13, 1925, w ith Lillian, in a lavender gow n, giggling
nervously throughout. They spent their honeymoon at Mount Rainier
National Park and then in Se attle and its environs before stopping in
Portland on their way home so that they could visit Elias and  Flora, who
had not been ab le to attend the wedding. But as W alt remembe red it, even
his w edding night, in keeping w ith his courtship, was less tha n romantic,