# Página 419  
W alt was happy , and the story meetings on The Concert Featur e  that fall
were smaller and much more pla yful and freewheeling than the meetings on
Bambi  or Pinocchio.  I n part,  it was b ecause this time W alt wasn’ t carrying
the entire burden; since he clear ly didn’ t know as much about music as his
collaborators, he was sharing the burden with Stokowski and T aylor .
Another reason was that W alt didn’ t feel he had to have the entire movie in
his head; since this was not a de nsely plotted film, he could brainstorm and
experiment. “W e’re searching h ere, trying to get away from the cut-and-
dried handling of things all the way through everything,” he told his story
crew with what seemed a sense of relief, “and the only way to do it is to
leave things open until we have completely explored every bit of it.” In fact,
his concerns were less aestheti c than cultural. Though he wo uld later be
accused of bowdlerizing the compositions, W alt was nearly reverential
toward the scores, fearing to make any cuts and worrying what the reaction
would be if he departed from the composer ’ s stated idea for  a piece of
program music. It was Stokowski who assured him that cutting a score was
perfectly acceptable (“It is like pruning a tree. It sometimes grows stronger
from pruning”),  and that providing one’ s own visual interpretation of the
music was fine “if the spirit of the music is with us.”
But the main reason W alt was so  enthusiastic about The Concert Featur e
was that he felt he was blazing trails again. The ef fect was liberating.
Having already expressed his antagonism toward gags, he  was now
expressing antagonism toward the idea of narrative itself. Not everything
had to connect, he instructed his storymen. Not everything  had to be
worked out in story terms. “I know everybody has the tendency to have
story ,” h e told a meeting on The Concert Featur e,  “bu t I keep telling myself
that this is dif ferent—we’re presenting music,” which meant that the score
wouldn’ t just embellish the visuals but would be absolutely coequal to
them. “I would like to have this thing kind of weave itself together and
complete itself,  but not have a plot.” At another meeting,  describing
admiringly a recent package of  eight unrelated shorts that the studio was
releasing that September as a k ind of test run for The Concert Featur e,  he
told his story crew that the “story annoys you.”