# Página 313  
Though it was dif ficult to determine the yield, especially sinc e W alt was
asking th at promising candidates immediately be sent to the stud io, the final
group th at Drake and Graham dispatched to California consisted of only
twenty-two—out of more than two thousand hopefuls.
Even the n the recruits weren’ t secure. The earlier group of prospects—
among them Reitherman, Lar son, Kimball, Kahl, Thomas , Johnston,
Lounsbery , and Davis—had been indoctrinated by Graham and then
mentored by W alt’ s first genera tion of master animators: Ham Luske, Fred
Moore, Norm Fer guson, and Gr im Natwick. But the current nov itiates were
entrusted to Geor ge Drake, once  called the most hated man at D isney , who
kept them under his whip hand during what amounted to a one-month trial
that consisted lar gely of animati ng test assignments. “Geor ge had huge ears,
great and red and wiggly ,” recalled Ken Anderson, one of his trainees, “and
they lit up as he  jumped up and  down while screaming.” Drake terrorized
them, bu t he was the one they ha d to please, even though his own work was
less than  stellar .  “During that one month period Drake kept us on edge by
continually paci ng the hall and popping in on us at odd mome nts,” wrote
Bill Pee t, another trainee. “Every few days one or two of the group were let
go, and as it came down to the last week we wondered if Drake  would fire
all of us.”
It was agonizing, but those who survived moved on to Graham’ s classes
and the other be nefits that the s tudio showered upon its employees. Those
who sur vived entered the very privileged precincts at the very apex of
animation.
III
T o b e one of the roughly five hu ndred employees at the W alt Disney Studio
in the mid -1930 s as it began Snow White  was to be swept up in a frenzy of
exhilaration. On e observer said that it was “so far in advance of the times
that it became a  place of pilgrim age, not only for Mickey devotees but for
anyone intereste d in the growth of a contemporary experiment in art and
entertainment.” Grim Natwick c alled it a “mythical sun around which the