# Página 821  
The serenity didn’ t last. Several weeks after returning from V ancouver ,
W alt and  Lillian  flew to Reno on personal business and several  weeks after
that to Denver . In September , back at the studio, he suddenly began
pressuring the staf f to prepare a film that would explain EPCOT and attract
corporate partners. He watched  the “rushes” of The Jungle Book,  ar guing
angrily with Milt Kahl over whe ther a tiger could climb a tree, and left the
meeting, accord ing to one acc ount, remarking ruefully , “I don’ t know ,
fellows, I guess I’m getting too old for animation,” even as he w as char ging
Harry T ytle with finding how the studio might further lower its animation
costs. That same month he held a press conference with Californ ia governor
Edmund Brown to announce plans on Mineral King.
Y et, eve n as he was aggressively laying out his agenda for the company ,
he was also con sidering someth ing new , something that seemed to belie his
outward confide nce and underscore just how exhausted he was. Under
cover of attending a ceremony to receive an award from an  exhibitors’
group, h e, Roy , and Donn T atum  flew to New Y ork on October 3, 1966, for
an all-day conference with General Electric to discuss what was vaguely
called a “relationship” between the two companies, though what they really
seemed to have in mind was a m er ger . “How would the relationship of GE
and WD P work? ” an internal w hite paper at the studio asked. “Structure: if
other th an subsidiary , why? Lines of authority . How will GE use WDP—
continue in entertainment business? Future financing for WDP projects.” It
also contained an analysis of h ow a mer ger might af fect EPCOT , though
protecting EPCO T from the bus iness side of his own studio, which was less
than enthusiastic  about it, may have been the reason that W alt approached
GE in the first p lace. “ ESSENTIAL TH A T ALL DISCUSSIONS ARE T O
BE KEPT CONFIDENTIAL ” was emblazoned at the top of the agenda.
The disc ussions did not seem to lessen W alt’ s enthusiasm for his projects.
He retur ned to the studio for more consultations on EPCOT and to shoot the
EPCOT film, rehearsing his pre sentation before the actor W alter Pidgeon,
Art Linkletter , and the architect W elton Becket. But if he had been hoping
to fe nd o f f pain by continuing to push ahead, he failed. Though his hair had
obviously been darkened, he looked old and weary , and during  the filming
he w as s o fatigued that he had to be administered oxygen. “Y o u could just