# Página 382  
Oscars were awarded in Feb ruary 1939, W alt did receive a special
acknowledgment for his achievement: one lar ge Oscar statuett e and seven
smaller ones. “Isn’ t it bright and shiny?” ten-year -old actr ess Shirley
T emple chirped as she presented  the award. “Oh, it’ s beautiful,” W alt said.
“Aren’ t you proud of it?” she asked. “I’m so proud of it I think I’ll bust,”
W alt bea med. T o which T emple rejoined, “Oh, don’ t do that, Mr . Disney!”
The exchange, one guest said, “brought down the house.”
The sen se of jubilation swept through the entire Disney family . Just two
weeks after the Los Angeles premiere of Snow White,  the Disneys—all but
Ruth, who remained in Portland —gathered at the Ivar House r estaurant in
Hollywood to celebrate Elias and Flora’ s fiftieth wedding anniversary and
to p ut an end to what had been a dif ficult decade for the couple, even as
Roy and  W alt’ s status had been steadily rising. The Depressio n was not a
particularly good time to be la ndlords, which was how Elias and Flora
earned their living. “Condition s for us have not improved,” Elias wrote
W alt in a typical letter late in 1 933, “in fact, they are harder , as prices are
harder . W e have not rented and very few people are looking for
apartments.” W i th Roy and W alt plowing their profits back into the studio,
they we re unable to contribute much to alleviate their parents’ plight,
mainly giving them magazine subscriptions, periodic vacations to Los
Angeles to visit, a new Sears Coldspot refrigerator , and in 19 34 a trip to
Florida via Kansas City and Chicago to see friends and relatives. Though it
may hav e seemed niggardly considering that the Disney brothers were now
national figures , Elias didn’ t th ink so. He wrote Ray that “Roy is very
generous and I sometimes think  too much so, but he don’ t seem to loose
[ sic ] an ything by it.” Elias made no such claim about W alt’ s ge nerosity .
When W alt was  asked to endor se a DeSoto automobile in exc hange for a
car , W al t objected, saying he didn’ t drive a DeSoto and wasn’ t g oing to say
he d id, but when Flora suggeste d that he give the car to them, he relented,
posed for the ad, and presented them with the DeSoto.
In addit ion to their economic hardships, there were health p roblems.
Flora su f fered a  succession of s mall strokes, and the doctor ord ered her to
rest eve ry afternoon for ninety minutes to lower her high blood pressure.
Elias’ s h ealth had been failing too, and by 1937 he was nearly  blind. His