# Página 595  
both ins ide and outside the film  industry that the group was toxic when it
came to anti-Semitism and that R yskind merely provided cover . Even the
FBI was concerned. One FBI agent reported at the time of the MP A ’ s
formation, “There is every possibility that persons anti-Semitic will attempt
to rally around the MP A, making that or ganization definitely an anti-
Semitic group.” Another report quoted John Howard Lawson, a Communist
screenwriter and  later one of the unfriendly HUAC witnesses, as accusing
directors V ictor Fleming and Ki ng V idor , two MP A members, o f each being
a “n otorious anti-Semite.” Producer David Selznick held the sa me opinion
of the MP A leadership. Outside an MP A meeting in March 1944 Selznick
made the char ge publicly to MP A president Sam W ood. W ood, obviously
trying to  disarm him, invited Selznick inside to air his complaints, but
Selznick, unmollified, called Ja mes K. McGuinness, the MP A founder , the
“biggest anti-Se mite in Hollywood” and char ged him with harboring a
secret an ti-Semitic group called  the Hundred Haters at the Lakeside Golf
Club, w here McGuinness was president. The char ges were credible enough
that Selznick’ s father -in-law , MGM head Louis B. Mayer , and W arners’
production head , Jack W arner , both of whom were at the far right of the
political spectrum, began to worry about the anti-Semitic element in the
group.
W alt Disney certainly was aware of the MP A ’ s purported anti-Semitism,
but he chose to ignore it, p ossibly feeling that the accusation was
Communist pro paganda. The price he paid was that he would always be
lumped not only with anti-Communists but also with anti-Semites.
Regardless of whether he hims elf was one or not, he had wil lingly , even
enthusiastically , embraced them and cast his fate with them. And having
done so , regardless of the awa rds and charitable contributions, he would
never be able to cleanse himself of the taint.
V
So m any projects, so little progress. By late 1947 the studio had  under gone
yet anot her reor ganization plan,  this one putting Ben Sharpsteen in char ge
of all feature animation and Hal Adelquist, who had been head of