# Página 297  
arrived at Paddington Station in London on the boat train, the crowds
waiting for them were so lar ge that the police had to protect t he Disneys,
and when they settled in Grosvenor House, according to one  account, a
“hundred pressmen followed Disney from room to room,” even tailing him
into the bathroom. From that point on, throughout the trip, Lillian kept
chiding W alt, calling him “Big Shot.”
Over th e next six weeks the Disneys toured Europe, driving  north to
Scotland and the Lake Country , which W alt loved, then going to Paris,
where they were feted by the Le ague of Nations. Appreciating the formality
of th e occasion, W alt and Roy h ad morning coats made for them, “only to
find,” W alt would later recall, “that everyone there had want ed the boys
from Hollywood to feel at home so they came in casual clothes!” W alt
never w ore the morning coat again. For two weeks they drove aimlessly
through the French countryside, visiting the places where W alt had
bivouacked dur ing the war; then they drove into Germany , stopping at
Baden-Baden and Munich, cros sed the Alps to Switzerland, and took the
train from V enice to Rome, whe re W alt was again greeted at the station by
an appre ciative mob and where he had audiences with Pope Pius XI and
Benito M ussolini, who bragged to W alt that the Italian trains were now safe
from brigands.
The trip  seemed to have the intended restorative ef fect. W hen the
Disneys returne d home, after sailing on the Italian luxury line r Rex  from
Genoa on July 25, they said they were “tired but happy .” Certain ly they had
been bu oyed by  the reception t hey received. W alt and Lillian “got such a
welcome as Europe has given fe w Americans in recent years,” reported the
Los Angeles T imes,  citing a cartoon in the British magazine Punch  in which
John Bull greeted W alt as “ Public Benefactor No. 1.” Roy happily
concurred. “W alt has been royally received everywhere,” he wrote their
parents. “Y ou have good reaso n to be proud of W alt. He has  conducted
himself in a ma rvelous manner . Aside from the question of whether he
deserves all the honors that hav e been conferred on him, he keeps his head
and is still the same boy you knew .” As for his physical condition, W alt felt
rejuvenated. When his doctor ’ s receptionist called and advised him to come
to the of fice to resume his thyroid injections, W alt snarled, “Y o u tell Doc I