# Página 257  
another speciali zation to the story process, the gagman, whose job was to
take the continu ity and further “ gag it up.” Sometimes this woul d take place
in gag sessions with the storyman and director . Other times W alt would
roam th e studio  with several ga gmen in tow , visiting music ro oms to add
gags under his supervision. Bu t even the gags were being routinized. At
roughly the same time the gag man appeared, the studio was negotiating
with UA publicist Hal Horne for  his extensive gag file, and by decade’ s end
the s tudio had a row of filing ca binets with 1.5 million jokes grouped under
124 classifications.
In the very early days, once th e story had been developed and  gagged,
W alt wo uld the n supervise the animation, functioning essentia lly as both
producer and director . By the late 1920s, under the pressure of two full
programs of animations—the Mickey Mouse cartoons and the Silly
Symphonies—he had surrendered the director ’ s role. The director was a
coordinator , synthesizing the story with the animation, the background
layout, and the sound track. It was the director who finalized the “grays,”
the g ray sheets of paper on which were listed all the dialogue and sounds,
then drew up th e bar sheets that  listed the sounds and the images frame by
frame and side by side. He also was responsible for recording the sound,
assigning scenes  to animators, p reparing the pencil tests to be reviewed by
W alt, overseeing the inking and painting of his film, edi ting it and
assembling it, and perhaps most of all, conveying W alt’ s instructions to
everyone on the project so that W alt’ s vision was realized—an unenviable
task, sin ce W alt  was often inex act in expressing what he want ed and then
usually berated a director for not being able to read his min d. As Ben
Sharpsteen put it, “W alt was the antagonist. He would take no excuses for a
poor picture and he was prone to blame the director for a picture’ s
weaknesses.” Iw erks and Jaxon (W ilfred Jackson) were the first directors
after W alt relinquished those reins. Later , when W alt was forced to divide
the wor k into units to speed production, he assigned Jaxon, Gillett, and
Sharpsteen to head them, and when Gillett was lured away by V an Beuren
after the success of Pigs,  an animator named Dave Hand, who had joined
the studio two days after Iwerks left, assumed control of a unit.