# Página 807  
satellite, they asked W alt because, the or ganizers told studio executives,
they felt  he was “one person no country could find fault with.” H e was, The
New Y ork T imes  reported at the time, “revered and honored almost to the
point of  absurdi ty ,” though none of his honors may have been greater than
the Pres idential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award the nation
can best ow . W alt received it from President L yndon Johnson a t the White
House during the 1964 presidential campaign—W alt wore a Goldwater
button under his lapel—and it was a measure of his status that among his
fellow h onorees that day were the poets T . S. Eliot and Carl Sandbur g, the
novelist John Steinbeck, the u rban historian Lewis Mumford , the naval
historian Samuel Eliot Morison, the artist W illem de Kooning, the
composer Aaron Copland, the columnist W alter Lippmann, the journalist
Edward R. Murrow , and Helen Keller . W alt Disney was in the pantheon.
But with  the lionization came a backlash. Before the war W alt Disney
had been considered a happy exception to the mass culture  that many
observers—including Dwight Macdonald, C. W right Mills, a nd W illiam
Whyte—warned was threatening the nation’ s cultural health. Si nce the war
some in tellectuals had come to feel, as V incent Scully did, that W alt had
himself become a corporate vulgarian who coarsened the culture through
commercialization and simplification. One authority on children ’ s literature
said she found “almost everything objectionable” in his rendition of fairy
tales. He “takes a great masterpiece and telescopes it,” she said, and “leaves
nothing to the i magination of the child.” After the success of Disneyland,
however , a more profound critique emer ged, in which Disneyland itself was
the primary tar get. These detractors felt that W alt Disney had not perfected
reality so much as glossed it; his synthetic world from which danger had
been pur ged was  a means of avoiding the issues now confrontin g the nation
and of papering  over its contrad ictions. Not only did Disneyland provide a
fortress against reality , which, o f course, had been W alt’ s inten tion; it also
provided a model and even a sensibility for transforming real ity that was
becoming all-encompassing, meaning that Disney had impregnated himself
into the American consciousness. As the French philosopher Jean
Baudrillard would put it, “Disneyland is presented as imaginary in order to
make us believe that the rest is real, when in fact all of Los Angeles and the
America surrounding it are no longer real, but of the order of the hyperreal