# Página 697  
And W alt clearly wanted to prolong the joy he felt. The park’ s opening
had been scheduled just fou r days after his and Lillian ’ s thirtieth
anniversary , so W alt decided to  host a party on the evening of July 13 not
only to celebra te his marriage but to show of f his park to friends and
notables. (He invited everyone from his aunt Charlotte and Joe Rosenber g
to Spen cer T racy , Cary Grant, Gary Cooper , and Louis B. Mayer .) He
waited cheerily at the gate to g reet them; then, when most of  them were
delayed by a traf fic snarl, he stood there smoking nervously and  grumbling.
It was no doubt  a measure of how tense he had been over the  months of
construction and how relieved he now felt that as the party was drawing to a
close at the Golden Horseshoe Saloon, he had drunk a little to o much and
was firin g imag inary bullets at the stage from the balcony . Diane had to
drive him home, during which time W alt was “tootling” throu gh a rolled
map of Disneyland as if it were a trumpet; then he sang a song and fell
asleep holding the map.
Continuing the long festivities, the very next night he was feted at the
Hollywood Bowl. Fess Parke r and Buddy Ebsen, who had played
Crockett’ s sidekick on the television show , flew in from location in
Kentucky , where they were shooting a prequel to Davy Cr ockett ; Sterling
Holloway , who had voiced a nu mber of Disney characters, narrated “Peter
and the W olf,” as he had done fo r the film; Clif f Edwards, who had been the
voice of Jiminy Cricket, sang songs from Pinocchio ; producer W inston
Hibler narrated suites from two T rue-Life Adventures; and Disney
characters performed a ballet. At the conclusion California governor
Goodwin Knigh t declared W alt the state’ s honorary governor an d presented
him a coonskin c ap dipped in silver . According to the Los Angeles T imes,  as
W alt was introduced, “[a]pplaus e rose like a hurricane in the g reat verdant
Bowl and knocked against the stars.” Children whistled. The celebration
was repeated the following evening, two days before the opening.
Even after three thousand wo rkers had cut twenty thousand feet of
timber , poured five thousand cubic yards of concrete, and lai d a million
square feet of asphalt, W alt s till wasn’ t finished. The night before the
opening he suddenly seized upo n the idea of taking the giant r ubber squid
from 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea  and  exhibiting it at the park. The