# Página 336  
Ever since Flowers and T r ees,  color had been a preoccupation of W alt’ s,
and some critics would credit him with being the first film artist to use color
expressively rather than realistically , which usually meant that he deployed
bright pop colors that one couldn’ t find in nature. That may have been
perfectly accepta ble for shorts, b ut for Snow White  he had s omething else in
mind. Sp eaking of a Harman-Ising cartoon he had seen recently , W alt told
his layout men that he was striving for a more artistic ef fect . “They got
colors everywhe re,” he said, “a nd it looks cheap. There is nothing subtle
about it at all. It’ s just poster -like. A lot of people think that’ s what a
cartoon should have. I think we  are trying to achieve somethi ng dif ferent
here. W e are not going after the comic supplement coloring. W e have to
strive for a ce rtain depth and realism.” The color of the shorts, he
instructed, would “begin to wear you out,” were they to be used in a feature.
Rather h e neede d a more muted  palette, more earth tones, and some darker
sequences where one could rest one’ s eyes. He even thought the application
of the color had to be dif ferent in Snow White  than in the shorts; where the
colors in the sho rts were typically bold and unsculptured, requir ing that the
paint girls simply fill in the o utlines, Snow White  had a soft, modeled,
chiaroscuro ef fect that broke sharply with animation tradition and required
more care. It was painterly .
T o achie ve the “depth and realism” he wanted, W alt also relied on his
layout men to provide rich, detailed backgrounds: “For Snow White, …they
had draftsmen working with the  dif ferent storymen, and each g ag man had
his d raftsman who did a beauti ful, detailed drawing of the sim plest gag,”
artist Carl Barks told an interviewer . “If it was nothing more than Dopey
wriggling his nose, there was a $2,000 painting.” The man chiefly
responsible for conceptualizing these paintings, if not actually  putting the
brush to  the canvas, was the longtime studio sketch artist Al bert Hurter ,
who had drawn the initial sketches of the little pigs that F red Moore
rounded into the final characters. Even among the eccentrics at Hyperion,
the Swis s-born Hurter , one of t he oldest employees at just ove r fifty , was
known f or his peculiarities. “He’d just sit all day and scribble,” recalled
Eric Larson. “He didn’ t want to be involved in detailed layouts or the
detailed this or that, but he wanted to be an inspiration.” By o ne account,
Hurter p roduced fifty to one hundred sketches each day—everything from