# Página 68  
the ques t. “Guts and goodness in tandem,” the critic W alter Kerr would
write of Lloyd.
“Guts an d good ness” also described the intrepid, innocent young W alt
Disney who landed in Kansas C ity during the fall of 1919 determined to be
successful. Alm ost all of his acquaintances then remarked on his resolve
and absolute faith in himself, manifested not so much in brow-furrowed grit
as in a sunny ebullience. From the attention he had received at Benton and
at McKi nley High School and in France, he brimmed with a self -confidence
that was neither entirely justified nor particularly well directed, since he had
arrived without a plan. He was a  go-getter who did not know where he was
getting to, only that he would get somewhere.
Almost immediately upon arriv ing back in Kansas City , he spotted a
want ad in the Star  f or an o f fice bo y at the newspa per , which was where he
had long dreamed of working. D onning his Red Cross uniform because he
thought it made him look more responsible, he went to the Star  building to
apply , b ut havin g filled out in France and matured, W alt no longer looked
like an of fice boy , and despite h is insistence that he was only seventeen, he
was rejected for being too old. The manager suggested he apply to the
transportation department instead, since he had been driving an ambulance.
He did, but there  was no openin g. Discouraged and seeking consolation, he
headed where he always headed in times of distress—to Ro y , who was
working as a te ller at the First  National Bank. One of Roy’ s  colleagues
mentioned that two friends of his ran a commercial art shop and were
looking for an apprentice. W alt quickly returned home, grabbed samples of
his drawings from France, and applied for the job that same afternoon. He
was hired on the spot, with the stipulation that his salary would be
determined after a one-week trial.
The custodians of the shop we re two young commercial artists, Louis
Pesmen and W illiam Rubin, wh o were headquartered in the two -story brick
Gray Advertisin g Building in downtown Kansas City . W alt was so anxious
that firs t week that, as during his art classes, he never left his drawing
board, n ot even  taking a break  to relieve himself until lunch.  On Friday ,
with the  trial at an end, Rubin approached him, mused for a m oment, and