# Página 191  
But unti l then W alt could retreat back into the Mickeys and the Silly
Symphonies. Until then he was free.
IV
The reason Columbia was willing to spend $50,000 to extricate  W alt from
Pat Powers, and the reason lar ger and more established distributors had
avidly pursued W alt before Powers discouraged them, was that Mickey
Mouse was becoming a phenomenon. When Columbia took out a full-page
advertisement in Film Daily  that December proclaiming Mickey “The Most
Popular Charact er in Screendom,” they may not have been far of f. Even
before the Columbia deal one reviewer noted that “‘Mickey Mo use’ is one
of the very few ‘cartoon stars’ to have his name featured by theaters on an
almost e qual basis with the feature screen attraction.” A cart oon in The
Satur day Evening Post  th at fall showed  a wealthy man with a pince-nez and
cane at a theat er box of fice window digging into his pockets for the
admission and asking the ticket seller , “Am I too late for Mickey Mouse?”
An a rticle in Literary Digest,  comparing Mickey Mouse to Charlie Chaplin,
jazz ban dleader Paul Whiteman , and detective stories, claimed that he had
also bee n discovered by the i ntelligentsia as these other exemplars of
popular culture had. Chaplin re portedly demanded that a Mickey Mouse
cartoon be played with his new film City Lights,  and Madame T ussaud
requested permi ssion to immortalize Mickey in wax. In one three-week
stretch Mickey Mouse receive d thirty thousand fan letters, and by one
estimate one million separate audiences saw Mickey Mouse cartoons each
year in the early 1930s.
Nor was his popularity confined to America. Photoplay  called Mickey
the “ most popular motion pictur e star in all European countries” and noted
that Eng lish exh ibitors often featured his name in lights “four times as lar ge
as well-known stars.” The German biographer Rene Fulop-Miller called
Mickey the “preeminent personality of the screen today , and the only ‘artist’
who exe mplified in his work an d technique the pure form of talking films.”
French c ritics fr om one end of the aesthetic spectrum to the other praised