# Página 483  
federation, it also wanted recognition. Clearly , even under government
order , Lessing wouldn’ t relent.
W alt wouldn’ t either . All this time he had been stewing over the attempts
to ch allenge his power . Just after  the NLRB ruling he left for his  annual ride
with the  Rancheros V isitadores, but before he did so he encountered Art
Babbitt in the hallway one morning and ordered him to desist or ganizing. “I
don’ t care if you keep your goddamn nose glued to the board all day or how
much work you turn out or wha t kind of work it is,” W alt snar led, “if you
don’ t sto p or ganizing my employees, I am going to throw you r ight the hell
out of the front gate.” It was a t hreat W alt would have been only too happy
to execute.
That wa s because, however much W alt Disney detested the idea of a
union, he also d etested its or ganizer: Arthur Babbitt. Babbitt h ad come to
work at the stud io in July 1932 and had steadily risen throug h the ranks,
becoming one of the top animators. Among other things, he had animated
the witch in Snow White,  the mushrooms in Fantasia,  and  the stork
sequence in Dumbo.  B ut almost from  the first he experienced a tension with
W alt—Babbitt c alled it an “electricity between us.” Harry T ytle, a studio
executive, obser ved that Babbitt was the “one person who seems to push all
the wrong buttons” for W alt. Babbitt was loud and obstreperous and by his
own admission indiscreet. He disdained of fice politics and wouldn’ t play
them. H e was also a notorious womanizer: “My attitude was if it moves,
screw it !” W alt was especially irritated when Babbitt began an  af fair with
young M arjorie Belcher , the model for Snow White,  and W alt was a bout to
fire him when Babbitt decided to marry her .
Naturally the hatred intensified when Babbitt defected from the
federation and not only joined the SCG and was elected its in-house
representative but also called for a boycott of Disney films unless the studio
recognized the union. Lessing had warned Babbitt that if he accepted the
position as union head, “I was letting myself in for a lot of trouble,” but
Babbitt seemed to welcome the threat. “He was a fighter ,” W ard Kimball
said. “He liked to have a cause. He was a showman. He liked to be
onstage.” Alread y that March, W alt had begun complaining about Babbitt’ s