# Página 270  
af fectations, but  by 1932 he had come to resemble a happy and  sometimes
hapless child, which may have made Mickey Mouse the first casualty of the
studio’ s growing obsession with realism.
The early and impudent Mickey Mouse seemed to belong in a universe
not unlik e the one cartoonist Geor ge Herriman created for his Krazy Kat—
an arid abstract plane where rub ber hose was more appropriate than squash
and stre tch. “In the beginning of the thirties,” animator Eric Larson
acknowledged, “ Mickey could do almost anything: stretch his arms, use his
body . Later in the thirties he was not able to do that.” What had happened
between these two Mickeys was realism. The early Mickey wa sn’ t real in
the sense that th e little pigs were  real, which is to say fully realized; in fact,
he w as barely a  character . As he had rubber hose actions, he had broad
rubber h ose emo tions too, which adapted to any situation, rather  than a core
personality that,  as in squash and stretch, could change but retained its basic
identity . But when W alt introd uced realism as a means of developing
personality and thus eliciting a  stronger audience reaction, Mickey was
bereft. W alt “rea lized the minute we got into believable stories that held up
with motivations and character and personality ,” animator W ard Kimball
said, “you open up a limitless world, whereas the mouse was limited.”
Since W alt couldn’ t countenance  dispatching his alter ego to oblivion, he
tried to conform him to the new landscape. Throughout 1932 and 1933
Mickey gradua lly became rounder , shorter , thicker , less s inewy—his
mouselike features shrinking and softening as his human features—his
hands, h is head, and his feet—grew , and his mouselike ch aracteristics
yielding to gentler , more human ones. By 1936 Les Clark was describing
Mickey to a group of would-be animators as having a “feeling of cuteness
and boy ishness,” and he said, “H e is generally considered and h andled as a
little boy .” Where he had been li ght-footed and snappy in the ea rly days, his
feet wer e heavy  now—“His feet should be at least half the volume of his
body ,” Clark advised—which li terally gave him a gravity he had not had.
More, he was not always dressed in his trademark shorts anymore. As early
as 1 932 he was wearing other clothes, lived in a house, and had his pet dog
Pluto. W alt even  insisted once th at Mickey and Minnie were ma rried in real
life, though they played boyfriend and girlfriend on screen.